This is Jocopontcast number 306 with echo Charles and me. Jocoboiling good evening echo good evening
And also joining us again tonight Dave Burke good evening Dave good evening
So I said this book was gonna take a while I actually said that to you of a year ago that when we do this book's gonna take a while
But we are going to continue our review of the book on
These psychology of military incompetence which we started on podcast 303
303 304 305 here we are on 306 and there's gonna be more
So if you haven't listened to 303 304 305 go back listen to those and if you have less than those then what you heard on those was basically the setup
It was the setup it was the background information
That we have been that we need to get into the actual theories of how psychology plays a role in military incompetence
And with that let's let's get back to the book
So this this part of the book is called part two and this is where we're no longer covering historical
Incidents or battles
Although the reason I had to read them all was because he does refer back to him quite a bit and I will say as I went through the as I as I was kind of navigating
How to do this?
I'm not going back as much as he is so when he goes back I might not cover every single one he goes back a little bit more
but
So
This part of the book is what's
What he's actually trying to figure out how does how does psychology play a role in incompetence?
So here we go chapter 13 is there a case to answer
He says that now that we have completed his survey of sorry covering
100 years of military misapps what conclusions can be drawn regarding the incidents
of military incompetence. There are a number of possible answers first. The it could be argued that so called incompetence to high levels of command is really a
Figma of the imagination of
vindictive inaccurate or untrue throw historians
So that's one conclusion a second conclusion might be what seems to have been military incompetence was really due to other non-military factors
Such as governmental stingingists
They grieve of the weather and sheer bad luck a
Third conclusion might be that since every military action is an uncontrolled experiment in the sense that it can never be known what would
Have been the outcome had been this had decisions been different there remains an almost unimaginable possibility that
Things might have been worse that what was done did represent the least disasterous of
possible courses open
So
There are some different reasons why you could say well, you know, it's not really military incompetence. It's just that historians or jerks
It's just that there's factors that no one can control and that actually these decisions that were made were good
But you know, it's just a bad situation so these are the best things that could happen
As response to that is no one would deny there's more to grain of truth and all these propositions cool
Facts do get distorted and then the telling disasters are indeed more newsworthy than successes
Riders undoubtedly do enjoy painting the worst possible picture of their particular
Bet noires many
Generals have had to contend with an up-to-toed
Unformed interference and the stingingists of their political masters and of course things could have been worse
There are counter arguments however because they are
Surrogate father figures people are only too ready and anxious to love their adnelson generals particular a time of war
We see that a lot right the if someone was in the military
Then they must be awesome and
And recent years that's gotten
I would say even more
prolific if someone's that then anything they say has some merit and value and then you figure if they're a vet
Whatever they say has merit value if they were an admiral or they were in a general then they must just be awesome
They just must be speaking the truth
Which we know not to be true?
I'm gonna fast forward a little bit under the circumstances this book takes the view that certain sorts of incompetence have been an enduring
Feature of the military scene and that amongst the millions of officers and men who have fought heroically and efficiently
Often under the most trying conditions. There have marched a small
But influential number whose ability has fallen far short of that required by the positions which they held
So again, he likes to point this out from time to time and this is one of those times that
This isn't about every military officer and I'm not making this about every military officer
I worked for awesome military officers Dave
Yeah at every level there are great military officers every level every service
There's great military officers, but it is interesting he says a small but influential number
So these are people that are totally inept at being military leaders and yet they end up in really powerful positions
He says two questions and then occur is there any common pattern to this incompetence and
If there is when's does it arise as
a first step towards answering these questions. Let us try and summarize that data contained in the foregoing chapters in brief then
military incompetence involves
one
A serious wastage of human resources and failures to observe one of the first principles of war economy of force
This failure derives in part from an inability to make war swiftly
It also derives from certain attitudes of mind which we shall consider presently
So that's the number one thing that's showing that someone's in a nepp leader is when they have
Massive wastage of human life
Number two a fundamental
Conservatism and clinging to out-worn tradition and inability to profit from past experience
Owing in part two refusal to admit past mistakes G
Do we even have to go any deeper on that one or is everyone just immediately understanding what's going on with that if you can't admit your past mistakes
If you can't take ownership of human snakes, you don't make any improvement. It also involves a failure to use or tendency to misuse
Available technology
This one's in massive
profit from past experience
Failure to profit from past experience. You don't learn anything
Number three a tendency to reject or ignore information
Which is
Unpalatable or which conflicts with preconceptions
Number four a tendency to underestimate the enemy and overestimate the capabilities of one's own side
Indecisiveness number five indecisiveness and a tendency to
Abdicate from the role of decision maker
Number six an obstinate persistence in a given task
Despite strong contrary evidence
Obstint persistence in a given task. That's when you are this is a
I don't know if you guys have anything like this Dave, but when you're parachuting
What one of the ways that people die when parachuting is they have a problem with their main parachute
And they just keep trying to fix that problem. They get target fixation and they just they just and they never go to the reserve
They never go to the reserve
Yeah, can that happen in the cockpit? Yeah, absolutely and I
Maybe a slightly different different version of that is you can have a system that is a you know
It's a critical system that you need but it wouldn't be the difference between returning home safely and not
And but you'll you'll spend so much time trying to resolve the problem that system is causing that it can lead you to
Focusing on that so much that that you stop paying attention other things and a lead you to a misapp
When even though it could be a real problem
It should never lead you down the path of of crashing or losing the airplane and
What you really need to do is
It ignores probably the wrong word, but if you can't solve this move move on to something else and get the airplane back safely
And they'll spend people who devote 100% of their attention to that
All the way to the point that they crash their plane as a result of it when it would would not have caused a crash
It's kind of crazy and that human element of
The fixation I think is the word you use the fixation on that
You know I was just talking about this at the master we are genetically programmed to fixate yes
Because if you're a caveman and you can't concentrate on the tiger that's you know styling up on you and you're distracted by other things
Then you're gonna die right so we're programmed to focus on what's right in front of us
That's why people so often lose strategic vision
And they can't detach and they don't see what else has happened on that's that's why you get flanked
That's why you keep trying to fix your parachute until you hit the dirt or why you concentrate on some instrument panel
Until you run out of fuel or you run into a mountain exactly
What's the term when someone hit some mountain with no
Like no brakes or whatever yeah
We call it see fit controlled flight into terrain
Which means you're fully in control of the aircraft as you do it as you hit that mountain
Because you are so fixated on something else
You know it's not like hey, I'm tumbling out of the sky. I'm trying to save this airplane
I hit the ground it's like hey I'm flying perfectly
Normal flying I might be I'm focused I'm fixated or focusing on something that's a problem
But I'm going to fully control the level flight into the ground into the mountain that is totally avoidable
Had it not been for that fixation. It's common
It's as far as miss abskow it's not uncommon. It's not uncommon
Well the the first time I remember hearing that was when Kobe Bryant's helicopter crashed and I think that was because they couldn't see
Right they they couldn't see but there was nothing wrong with helicopter all they were just supplying and he
Obviously, they I think they were in a fog and so got disoriented and just flew just full speed no factor into the into the mountain yeah and like the worst versions of that is
They're all terrible is
I'm I'm I'm in a dive like I'm in a deep 45 degree dive. I'm diving down towards the target
Which is what you're supposed to do you're going to get it to it out to it and you're going to dive down towards the target to help
Refine we're going to drop the bomb and I'm going to focus on the display that make sure that my
Targeting my reticle the aiming point is exactly where I want it. I'll just keep it adjusting that targeting point to be exactly where I want it
And I'll go through my minimum altitudes and I will fly straight into the ground all the while just
Focusing on that targeting point and I'll never try to pull up. I'll never try to recover
I'll ignore warnings that say your altitudes getting low and
Pile to fly directly into the ground working on something else in a perfectly safe effective finding. Yeah, no problems at all
That is literally the exact same thing. It happens to guys skydiving well
It's a little bit different because of where the guy's skydiving there trying to fix a problem
Usually I'm supposed to throw some cases. You know, this is why
But again, refer to back to the most girls talking about the the leadership loop and yeah
The main bullet at the bottom both for the who to loop and the leadership loop is you can't get stuck
You can't get stuck focused on one thing and
And when you do get focused on one thing
There's just there's just there's the rest of the world doesn't stop
Right whenever you're focusing one thing in life the rest of the world doesn't stop
The rest of the world's gonna keep going if you don't look around it's gonna be a problem
And that's what this number is number six an obstinate persistence in a given task
Despite strong contrary evidence that was number six number seven of failure to exploit a
Situation gained an attendancy to quote poll punches
Rather than push home an attack
Number eight of failure to make adequate reconnaissance
Number nine a predilection for frontal assaults often against the enemies strongest point
And again
Even what's again at the master
I'm
Trying to explain to people because you know there's people that want that they would they just want to hear you say look
So someone's called some problems. You just gotta go direct it. That's what everybody wants to hear and it makes
So much intuitive sense to think you know what I don't like Dave's plan. I just need to go tell him Dave. I don't like your plan
And it's just
So obvious that when I say Dave
I don't like your plan immediately Dave is defensive you by the way once you get defensive
You're not listening to anything else. I say and now we're not making a new progress
So even though it seems like it's the most efficient thing to do it's not
The most efficient thing to do is say hey Dave. I'm looking at your plan
Can you expand on a couple of these points because I don't think I understand them and now his defenses are down
We're having a real conversation my mind is actually open. It's not just a little
Fugazi it's real
And we're having a real conversation we can make progress
But the
Predelection for the frontal assault both on the battlefield and in a conversation with another human being is bad and it leads to failure
Number 10 a belief in brute force rather than the clever roost
So there you go the jujitsu people just cheered
A failure to make use of surprise or deception
Judging people just cheered again. This is the kind of thing when I say that jiu jitsu affected my brain
These are the kind of things those three right there frontal assaults bad that's jujitsu
Believing clever roost instead of brute force that's jujitsu make use of surprise and deception
That's jujitsu
I had a buddy I start he trained you to do i train jitsu but he was very he was sort of
Not training a lot and this was early 90s he trained you know some you know
And I
Was like in my first month of training jiu jitsu all the time with Fabio Santos
And one day this is my buddy Jim I said I
Told him I came back after like a month of training. I said hey man here's the deal
I just I just learned this you can't do one move a one move by itself doesn't work because it's too easy
Defend you got to set people up that's what this whole thing is it's like a trick it's a big trick
And about three days later he and I were rolling
And he freaking was syncing in a choke syncing in a choke
Syncing in a choke and I was like do this guy's not gonna be able to choke me. I know exactly boom you're on lock me
Hahaha
And I was like whole I any he he won hundred percent he got it he was like dude
That's what you just told me and I was like oh my god
so
And he you know
At he
Got me because of that thing right there
He listened to me and this guy ended up uh we ended up working together a lot and actually
Just an awesome guy but anyways
He used that thing
He said it up
That little that little surprise number one. It was a surprise number two. It was a roost and number three. It wasn't brute force. It was technique
number 12
An undo readiness to find scape goats for military setbacks. Oh, this is to use Jason Gardner's
term blame thrower these people get out the blame thrower
And the opposite of extreme ownership right I'm just gonna find who I'm gonna blame
A suppression number 13 a suppression or distortion of news from the front usually rationalized as necessary
For morale or security. Oh, you know what that is a really nice way of saying
A suppression or distortion of news from the front usually rationalized as necessary from morale or security
What we're saying here is lying to the troops
Lining to the troops
And then number 14 this one's a little strange a belief in mystical forces
Fate bad luck etc
So there's your there's your list of 14 things that military incompetence involves
That's from all those historical features those are sort of the common themes here
Fast forward a little bit on logical if not humanitarian grounds that maintenance of an efficient force should be the first
Consideration of a military commander other qualities of general ship will avail him nothing if he has no one left to do the fighting so he's focusing on that first one saying
You should keep people alive
And this is something that you know sometimes people ask us
Well, you got the mission and you got the man which one's more important and
It's very easy for me to answer that question
The people come first because if you don't have people you can't do any more missions
So
Yes, the mission is absolutely a top priority
But it's not the top priority you got to take care of your people
Continuing on here excessive loss of life and high casualty figures would therefore seem like a likely indicator of military incompetence
Noon cases of what seemed to be purely administrative incompetence as for example in what John Laffin has described as the imbacill
Waltern expedition of 1809 though the purpose of this expedition was to attack Antwerp the troops were in fact
Captain waiting for eight weeks on unhealthy
Watcher in island in Zeeland in the event and owing to the procrastination of the military commander
Lord Chatham and the naval commander serritchered straight in
7,000 men died
14,000 had their health permanently ruined and thousands more became ill mostly from malaria
Only 217 were killed in action
So I just the occasion catch that 7,000 died from disease and
And
Just a disaster from an administrative perspective but only 217 were killed in action
While the while men were while dying men were given no attention and little to eat as Laffin remarks sick men were expendable
Fast forward a little bit the second class of man power wastage is that involving casualties from
Enemy action as a result of the incompetent planning of senior military commanders the men who perished in the attack on for Ruyah in the
Indian mute mute me the thousands of casualties from the German's use of gas in 1915 the 13,000
Winning to captivity following the siege of cut and the 138,000 casualties of Singapore the 8,500 Americans who died in the
Arden's offensive
1944 and the 17,000 British American impolish who were killed wounded or reported missing at RM RM
Fall into this category
So he's got these I should have broken this out earlier
He's going through the
The three different types or the different types of how you waste
People's lives the first one is just administrative
The second one is bad planning and in the third one is the third and most
Cossely type of man power wastage is that resulting from a deliberate policy of attrition adopted by
Commanders who regarded soldiers as wholly expendable
Generals for whom the conservation of human life rank lower than in importance than in various other criteria which were governing their actions
This is when your plan is oh a lot of people are gonna die
Fast for a little basis in all this we are anticipating a theory of military incompetence rather different from that held by
Proponents of the so called bloody fool theory
Perhaps we are being too complicated perhaps intellectual deficit could explain the data less than before
Considering the other factors contributing to military incompetence first examine this older and more favored hypothesis and so what are you saying here?
There's a lot of people that just say oh they people make mistakes and they make mistakes because they're dumb
They're just dumb
dumb military leaders and that's why they make these mistakes
they're just stupid and
Well, he's gonna talk about the fact that yeah, you can account for some of that
but a
Lot of times you have very intelligent
Leaders making really stupid decisions and obviously his high-profile offices. That's because of their psychological nature
So here we go in the chapter 14 the intellectual ability of senior military commanders
T.E. Lawrence Lawrence of Arabia said I feel a fundamental crippling
In curious and curiousness about our officers too much body and too little head
So obviously he's a military guy and he was very very smart
But he's just saying look I see a lot of people in our ain't too bright too much body too little head
What grounds are there then for the most popular explanation of military incompetence stupidity
There's there's a suggestion that the arms force armed forces do not attract the best brains
A call-up serving the survey in the United States put the status of army officers below that of professors
Physicians clergymen and school teachers
As Morris Genowitz remarks a liberal ideology hold that since war is essentially destructive the best minds are attracted to more positive endeavors
Um, that's like one of those statements you got well, you know if you're making that statement
You would if you're a really smart person. Are you thinking hey what do I want to do to I want to go out and
Build the the next great energy platform?
Oh, do I want to go out and kill a bunch of people you think oh well
Maybe the people have a little bit smarter are gonna lean towards building the next great energy platform
That's the that's the statement anyways
Yeah
What was the thing with like the bottom the atomic bomb like the technology was like
Made for something or the or the idea was like the technology was made for something
But then you got another group of people were like, oh, that's cool technology. Let's use it for this automatically
You know like for bad stuff. That's all what we always think right a lot of the time where it's like oh, that's good technology
Yeah, who's gonna weapon like someone's gonna weaponize it in it's like that's the fear like you put you and me in a room
And they're like hey, we've we've created this thing that can create a massive amount of energy and you're thinking cool
We can power the world and I'm thinking cool we can blow up our enemies
Yeah, that could be somebody's got to think that way. Yeah
It says here in training for general strip it seems that intellectual ability has not always counted for very much even
Hague the educated soldier became commander and chief of the British army in the first world war despite a poor academic record
This dowerland scott this dower lowland scott described by duff Cooper as the dunce of the family and by Lord George as utterly stupid
So so you are getting some dumb people here
Fast forward a little certainly a brilliant performance in military schools is no guarantee of subsequent ability
General colleague who's the session of defeats culminated in 1881 in his own demise at Mujaba Hill
Had the distinction of passing out of snath college with the highest marks on record
The irrelevance of early scholarship to subsequent general ship also find support in Napoleon and Wellington both of whom achieved very low grades at school
And in more recent times the early academic brilliance of lieutenant general
Perseval evidently availed him little at Singapore so he's given all these other examples right you got Perseval who led that total disaster in Singapore
Who was
Academically brilliant
Napoleon and Wellington who were great generals who were junk at school and another guy
General colleague who is a disaster on the battlefield and yet had the highest marks on record
So the statement is like hey
You could be really smart and do well you could be really smart and do horrible you could be moderately smart and do well
You could be moderately smart do horrible so I think the statement here is like well
It's not intellect is only part of it right intellect is only part of it
What about fighter pilots?
I mean look so in the seal teams for a while they were recruiting these really really smart
Ivy league you know Harvard Yale there's all this whole crew of officers that were coming in
They were clearly highly intellectual smart people and
They stopped recruiting those people so heavily and the reason they stopped recruiting those people so heavily was two reasons
So one was they would do their
One-platoon or two-platoon to get out and go to business school or whatever and two was they weren't that good
Yeah
There there was no there was no correlation
To someone that was really smart to someone that was a really good leader in the battlefield
Yeah, I think it's the same I really do I don't think I don't think the personality profile
You know or even just the motivational profile of
A lot of people in the military is all that different certainly when I think about seals and pilots and as often as you and I kind of contrast those two types of people
There's a ton of similarity there and you know the different services and aviation have different
sets of requirements and you know I think
The Marine Corps has the the lowest I guess standard of academic excellence in terms like what you studied in how well you did
I mean the old joke in the Marine Corps was you know if you got a 2.0 and underwater basket
We even you could be a pilot you know as the joke and you know what they were saying really was hey
You know we don't really care what you studied now you got to have a college degree and I think that does demonstrate some
willingness and ability and I'm not sure which is more important to get through a a long-term
Project hey I'm gonna dedicate four years of getting this degree that demonstrates hey you've got some planning
You got some interest you've got some intellect something that's gonna reveal that you're you are have something that's gonna be hard to do
You're gonna be willing to do that and you're getting a four point. Oh, you know in you know
Air aerodynamics versus a 2.0 in polysai we don't really care you know that was kind of the Marine Corps's
Genre General approach a little bit different for the other services
But I was kind of laughing and trying to
Thinking about this thing from a larger standpoint of these great military leaders that
Maybe didn't have the best records academically
In the two thoughts that I had is
The academics and the military aren't that hard
You know me like you don't need to be a genius to get perfect scores on your tests
And I think the ones that don't do that well academically that are that still really do well
There's probably a piece in there they're thinking like
This is dumb. There's a waste of my time. What's the what's the minimum grade requirement?
Yeah, cool. I'm gonna get that and there that actually reveals some level of intelligence
I'm not gonna waste my time and all this stuff that I don't really want to be doing
But I'm not gonna fail either so for for you to sort of explain
There's some really good leaders that didn't do so hot and then there's some guys that just were absolutely brilliant on paper that were terrible
That is not a stretch for me and all to picture that in aviation or anywhere
You know, it's like I think I know who those guys are
Yeah, and really
Anything anything there's no there I'm trying to think of a job
Where the full
Where where the the primary thing is only intelligence only intelligence
I'm sure there's some laboratory somewhere or some computer programming thing where
Basically the smartest person is the person that we want that job
But as soon as that person is in charge of people anyone else or in soon as there's some level of creativity or problem solving because there's
You just you what you want is a person that's composite has a bunch of different skills. I mean you would think for being a pilot
Uh
There's gotta be you know that that like the spatial like when I took the officer candid
Test and you've got to do the spatial recognition where how far away is this or is this aircraft or is this bird coming to you or going away from you?
Gotta tell from looking at it
Hey, obviously
Someone could be really really smart and suck at that test right not to mention eyesight not to mention
Reaction time like all those different things and then same thing with leadership
You can have someone that's super articulate that's there's there's really articulate people that aren't really that smart
I mean I served with some people like that
They're really articulate they can put a word together. What did people call them when you you know
That's a skill set that like a salesperson. There's really good salespeople. They're not the smartest people normal
But they're incredible at their incredible conversational us. Yeah, right?
But you wouldn't want to put them into a situation where they've got to stand up and talk from people if they don't have that skill
So just because someone is smart that's only like one quarter of the of the of the of the math we got to do here totally and when you're thinking about it from a leadership standpoint
and
The recognition that that leadership requires a whole bunch of different things not just being
You know smart and taking a test or being good at communicating it's the recognition that it requires so many different things
None of these these profiles that he just revealed are a big shock to me
I'm like yep yep. Yep. Those all make sense seals pilots ever in between and yeah
In aviation is there are a couple things that might incline you down that path like if you can naturally get a sense
If they show you a diagram of an airplane descending turning and and slow and then you have to match it up
That some people's brains maybe. I can't I can't see that as well as somebody else. Yeah, I could see that and that's gonna account for a small part of it. It might be good to know
But that by itself is it's gonna
It's gonna have almost no influence in the long-term success of this person in his career in the military that I could identify
Relatively early on of what the spatial orientation of an airplane was in relation to the ground. Do you want that?
Yeah, that's a good idea. I don't want someone who gets confused
But you don't want someone that's totally lost right. I mean even on that test you all you have to do is pass it right
No, that's how you have to and then you know if you and I were in the same thing and I was a little bit worse
I would study it more right figured out more or I'd just after
Whatever two months of looking at this stuff. We're the same. Yes because I figured out how to figure it out. Yeah
That's right. Check
Fast forward a little bit. Fortunately, there are some who have seen the threat to originality and intelligent thinking
The Duke of Edinburgh
felt it necessary to say finally as you grow older try not to be afraid of new ideas new original ideas
Can be bad as well as good but whereas an intelligent man with an open mind can demolish a bad idea
by reasoned argument
Those who allow their brains to
Attrophy report resort to meaningless catchphrases to
Duration and finally to anger in the face of anything new
This is you know this is Prince Philip
Duke of Edinburgh recently died
I don't know if you saw this funeral, but if you have any
Any
Warm place in your heart for the brits which I certainly do
They is his hurts was a land rover a military land rover that he had had some hand in design he was some sort of
Special transport and that's what they that's what they care of his body and
But here he is this is a this is just an incredible
Thing to think about
And it's an incredible thing to be on watch for you know
I said at the monster I said aim this book at yourself and then I said aim these things to yourself
When you hear stuff like this when I hear stuff like this I aim it at myself
Don't be afraid of new ideas and this is what an intelligent man
With an open mind can demolish a bad idea by reasoned argument and
And what I like about that is I
Always say to myself it Dave if you come to me with a plan or you come to me with an idea and I can't
Convent you that your plan isn't good or that there's a hole in it there's a problem
Then there's something going on here maybe it's my ego maybe it's my emotions maybe I just don't like you
But if I can't explain to you
Why your plan isn't good and the only thing I can find is you know what we're doing it my way
The only way I can overcome you is by you know
It well a catch phrase or to be like we've we always done it this way or
We need to stick with the plan right those are just catch phrases and that's what I'm gonna say or I just say
We know Dave's always got his own freaking Dave's always on his own freaking program like I can I can ridicule you or I can just get mad
That's what we sit yeah that third level too
I forgot what the middle one was when he talked about the meeting that's catch phrase and then the third one like resorting to anger
Yeah, you know it's basically just degrees of your ego of just being out of control
Yes, the first one's like I'm just gonna be dismissive of you by a catch phrase of
Jocco talks to me about an idea and I say something like you know
You know
Here comes the new guy with a bread idea
You know like to just kind of push you off and then if you persist and we kind of get to the second level
And I've got some other responsive isn't working the end all about left as I get mad at you
And if I out rank you like the military this whole military experiment then I automatically win
I automatically win because I'll just shut you up because I'm now mad and I'm just gonna resort to what I got as hey
Why don't you just go back to your desk and let me let me let me let me let me
Lead for a little while here since I'm in charge. Yeah, and then you just kind of walk away and that's the end of it
What you want to do is you want to be the Jeff Glover of ideas
So Jeff Glover will go out on the map with you and you you will let you put him in any position
Because he doesn't care he knows you just do and he can get out of it and if he doesn't get out of it
He so if you tap him out and he's like oh, yeah, that was good way to finish because because you know
You started with the rear naked choke and you were able to finish it. Jocco good job, you know like
He doesn't care he's he's he goes not involved at all
And he doesn't care and most of the time by the way he gets out because he knows the truth
So that's why I try and be when someone confronts me with an idea. I'm stoked
Oh, you you've seen you got me off balance awesome either I can recover myself because I have good information or a better
Perspective and we can discuss it logically and I can say oh, yeah, and I can point it out to you or you caught me off balance because I'm wrong
And I had a hole in my game and it didn't make any sense
So I'm actually happy about that
Open your mind
Fastwater let this inbreeding of the uneducated however was resisted by by the later massy committee who
Depressed by what they found considered that
one the general education of cadets should be continued
To few young officers showed any capacity for command
This was an assessment of what that they were doing three there was too much drill too much rigid discipline and too much cramming for marks
Number four the instructors or mediocre and selected for prowess at games and smartness
Rather than for their knowledge of the subject they had to teach or their qualifications as teachers
Much the same again. This was an assessment started as skipped it, but this was an assessment that got done of how they were training the
Military the army officers and then it says much the same picture has been painted of
Britannia four under of the Royal Naval College of Dartmouth Dartmouth again the emphasis was on blind obedience
Sport and ceremonial with scant regard to intellectual pursuits and little pride in knowing one's job
You know it's funny as soon as you say something like there's too much drill as soon as you say
You know if you're maybe you're thinking hey man
We're spending a lot of time just doing this like stupid drill stuff
There's someone that's like oh you understand the diss what the people and that's what this whole actually that's what this whole book is about
This whole book is about the people that when you threaten the the the norm and you threaten the hierarchy
You threaten the things that provide them with their security
Which is rigid discipline when you threaten those things they get mad and they attack yeah, they get mad
that
You started this whole part and you used a word and I think you pulled it from the book twice and then I think you said it once and I wrote it down
It was all this is a feature of the system like all this is a feature and he I think he was using it initially in this part of
And if I'm just trying to paraphrase more what you said was hey
Listen, you know the bell curve is kind of exists everywhere
But there is something a little unique about those that sort of make it to this level of
Senior leadership we're talking about generals and animals or you know lowerage or whatever
But there's something a little different about the ones that make it up to that level and
How it isn't quite just the same bell curve of everybody else where you got some smart people some you know middle-the-road folks
Maybe some other folks and what I've been trying to
Think in my mind about what that is is is kind of what you described is what's unique about those people those people
Have figured out how to navigate the system this thing that we're all living in because when you join the military
I don't count smart you are dumb you I don't care who or what you are what rank what service or where you came from at the beginning
You're just trying to figure out how the system works and if you figure out go oh
This class that I'm in that job was in charge of
At the end I get my choice of assignment strictly based on my GPA. Oh
Okay, get you know guess what a lot of folks you're gonna do that figure that out
I'm gonna get mom's gonna worry about the great oh
Jocos got this thing for drill. It's this thing cool and so when you say hey we're gonna go drill
Bill yeah
Let's go do some more drill or hey Dave you got some free time. What do you want to do? I I think hey boss
You know what we should do we should go drill and all of a sudden I kind of start maneuvering my way through the system to appeal to what I know is what you want
And I kind of wrote down some of the words of of things that are appealing brute force is appealing
It's a peel and sounds cool. You know what doesn't sound cool deception
Like I'm gonna I'm gonna take it indirect approach that that doesn't sound cool
Um caring about people doesn't sound cool being nice doesn't sound cool being an intellectual for the military
No that you know blowing things up sounds cool
Being an intellectual doesn and if I can figure out early on
What is it gonna appeal to you whoever my bosses are that school is or the intent is or the system and that's a
Request of this is about the bellkers different of the top because they figured out how to navigate the system
What the system wants and what the system wants is whoever's in charge that thing that appeals to them
Which is things like
What would you rather have someone who?
a pragmatic thinker who's willing to to
Give up on its plan and go in a different direction or someone who never gives up
You know like how many times is we talk are we to talk about the direct approach and
Not forget the idea that that that sounds appealing
It sounds right. I'm just gonna come at him and tell him the truth as to those
I I'm gonna play the long game. I'm gonna thanks strategically
I'm gonna keep my ego in check. I'm gonna consider that I might be wrong and I'm gonna
Moose slowly in this direction until we come to a the logical conclusion or I'm just gonna attack this target and run it over
And the ones that figure out the system and have a navigate that it makes sense
That at the top
They actually use a different bell curve of people than those of us at the beginning who actually some of us
Don't figure out how to navigate that system. Yeah. Yeah, and well
I don't know if I necessarily fully agree with you
because
I think that the system
the system but you're gonna agree with me. I said this anyways, but look at that that system
There's people that that learn how to figure out the system
Because they lack the ability to actually transit through the system on their own merit right?
So that's one group of people. There's another group of people that
Travel transit through the system and promote through the system because they're good and as we mentioned at the beginning
This you and I both worked for incredible officers at all levels
Incredible senior enlisted at all levels and some of those
The people that were awesome. They made it through the system the system worked
They didn't have to they didn't have to play a game. They have to manipulate
They did what they knew they should do and they went up through the system and they were great
But there's another group of people that's a group of people you're talking about that
They don't have the capability but they figure out you know at Adam McGuire
We were talking one day and he said
He said you know if we I think he had gone over to see some
The seals secure or the bud students secure from hell week and he came back. I didn't go with him for whatever reason he came back. He says
You know
If Ellie how do we want proves one thing like you're you're you're pretty tough
You know because he sees these guys after six days of freaking you know being awake and doing physical stuff
You guys you have proofs one thing you're pretty tough and I actually said back to him
I said you know there's a group of people that also
Go go through hell week and make it through how weak and what it proves is that they figured out how to how to get through
Because there's things you can do in hell week and
And it's it's actually a little different now when I went through hell week
You you just if you didn't carry the head if you didn't put your head under the freaking boat
I know this doesn't sound like that big of a deal
But you carry these freaking boats on your head for a week straight and guys permanently lose
Some guys not all guys some guys permanently lose their hair on the top of their head
Because it gets so that freaking boat is just grinding on it and
And it's it hurts hurt your neck hurt your head you have freaking scabs on the top of your head
Whatever
But there's some guys that figure out how to now you can't just take your head off the boat
But you also you know maybe you don't quite
Put as much into it
There's guys that figure out
You know when you're carrying the boat at a low ready, which is just carrying it your side
Which again doesn't seem like a big deal until they fill it with sand and water and also it's you know half your back and
So so you can kind of slack off a little bit and so there's guys that figure out
Where to come in on a run where they're gonna get the least amount of attention?
They figure out where to be in the chow haul line where no one's gonna pay any attention to them
They they they figure out how to get through and and I would say how weak is probably a pretty small amount of those people
But
You certainly would see a couple guys and you'd go man. How does he look fresh right now?
Well rest is so I'm gonna as you look oh that guy's fresh because he's a badass
So I'm gonna as you'd be thinking how's that dude look fresh right now? What just happened?
So yeah in any system there's gonna be a way to
Manoeuvre and manipulate through the system where if you don't have the chops to actually get it done
You can still get there and yeah, obviously I do agree with that and I think that's why there is a
little bit more of a contrast at the top
Then there might be elsewhere
When you're looking at the types the different types of people and the contrast to his point
Usually doesn't reveal itself until you get to this and he illustrates all these catastrophic things and you're looking back and thinking how could someone be in that position?
Do the things that they're doing and that's really I think what you're describing is
There's two different types of people that can get to that place now the ones that are doing it like you said on their merits
They still have to be doing a good job you can't not not having maneuver in the system and be terrible at what you're doing
But you can find your way to kind of maneuver up that ladder maneuver inside of that system and
Be in that category of people that sometimes will go oh well he's he's a general he must be awesome
This is how this person got there, but you you won't see that
It won't be revealed as to what this person is until it's in he's in one of those situations and I think that contrast that he's a looting to is like it's a little bit different there
Is more stark because at the at the very beginning
None of us have figured either of those things out yet. We're still figuring out hey, what do we need to do and how does the system work and the I
You should blend the two I want to work inside the system. I want to buck against the system and be so resistant to the system that the system gets rid of me
Yo, I was about to say what about those
Leaders that are incredible leaders that are dynamic that have these great personalities. They have good tactical science
But they can't play the game at all. I can't play the game at all right, and now they'd never get promoted
And they have no influence. That's right. I'm gonna tell me hackworth didn't play the hackworth played the freaking game for a long time
Played the game like
Massively
Massively and he loved it. He wasn't even playing the game. He was in the game. He was the he was the freaking player
And he's an example of a guy that he played the system. He got those jobs
He did those things, but he also was highly skilled as a leader. Yes, and there's plenty of people that would have done
And there's plenty of people that did the exact same thing as hackworth
Minus the leadership capability. There was a hard job. What would you call hard fill billet right? Yeah in the sealed things
We had the same thing you got a hard fill billet somewhere after you do your hard fill billet
They literally will give you any job you want. Well cool
Hey
I'm not gonna promote it on that, but I'm just gonna jump on that hard fill billet
Get done with that. They send you overseas on the company for two years
Boom and you come back now. There's some guys that do that
Because they're freaking good team players. They're you know what? I don't want someone else to have to do this
You know what my my kids just left for college
I'm gonna be I don't have anything to worry about for two years boom
I'm gonna go take this hard fill billet take one for the team. There's some people that do it for that reason totally
There's some people do it because they're going I can get promoted next after this so let's check in the box and that piece when you talk about the leadership
All I'm thinking is he actually cares about the people. Yeah, he actually cares about the people around him
And so that maneuver to gain the influence is
Is by design to be able to help people yeah because you know there's peace
There's features in the system. He's got to protect them from yes. It's it's all about the intent. Yes, and although
You can smell intent the system has a much harder time smelling intent
A system has a much harder time smelling intent look they look at Dave Burke and they look at Jaco and they both went overseas
Took a hard fill billet
Jaco was doing it because he wanted to get promoted Dave was doing it because he had
You know his kids had just left for for a college and so he felt like it was a good time
And he could take the strain off of someone else that might as calf kids so at all
Yeah, but what did they see on the paper? They don't see any of that. They can't see that intent
They can't see it. They've they knew us they could smell it. Yeah, but they don't get close enough on the promotion board
Some people around you know
Fast forward a little bit general Robert E. Lee admitted that the greatest mistake of my life was taking a military education
And general still well said it is common knowledge that an army officer has a one track mind that he is personally interested in stirring up wars
So that he can get a promotion and be decorated and that he has an extraordinarily limited education with no appreciation of the finer things in life
That's a heavy statement again. Are there some guys like that? Absolutely. That's not the majority for sure
Fast forward a little bit more the saddest feature of anti intellectualism is that it often reflects an actual
suppression of the intellectual activity rather than any lack of ability
This is suggested by the rapidity with which so many military men rush into print as soon as they ever retired
This talking about people right in books
Evidently there was something waiting to get out
Unfortunately as Lidel heart points out a lifetime of having to curb the expression of original thought
culminates so often in there being nothing left to express
So this is talking about I mean this guy is right in the spoken 1976
So he's talking about guys world world world world world war two as soon as they get out of the military they write these books
a guy like BHL heart
He writes books because he had all this stuff pen up and he also got out early because he had so much stuff
Pen out pen up inside of his head
This guy's in a lot of times by the time they get out. There's no freaking creative thought left. There's no new ideas left
Research on the relationship between mental activity and cerebral blood blood flow adds to point that the old belief that the brain like muscle
Attrophies from prolonged disuse but perhaps this touches upon the real cause of military incompetence age
Since traditionally promotion is dependent upon seniority commanders generals and above have tended to be old and since thinking
Memory intelligence and special senses all deteriorate with age
Then maybe bad generals are just old generals again. He's making an argument. Well, maybe these guys are just old. Maybe that's our problem
Another contribution to the incompetence tied up with age was the unhelpful tendency to
Sack
Fortunately retire or otherwise curtail the promotion of those young officers who unwisely failed to conceal their their lights
But-neath bushels of conformity
So real quick on the getting old part this is something that I was I think I talked about it on on the academy
I heard that interview with Cass Baroff the chess player and
Interview or acts actually I think it was Lex Friedman Lex asked him maybe it was Lex I think Lex asked him
Not in a direct way, but basically could you beat Magnus Carlson who's right now like this phenom and
And Cass Baroff said no and of the part of the answer which is what I talked about on the academy was part of their reason is because
Magnus has got to see everything that
Cost bar off done and study him. It's like a jitter guys now. They're like you know you got to
You took you seven years to figure out the 50 50 position
I got to learn that in 20 minutes on YouTube, right?
So I can start building off that immediately and that's the same thing with Cass Baroff is that is that Magnus Carlson has seen all of his moves
And everyone else's moves and studied him in books
So he's already building off of taller platform
But also Cass Baroff said I think Cass Baroff was like 55 60 something like this
Maybe let me know a little bit over he's like yeah, well, I'm older now
Yeah, and that brain ain't working as good
So that which really surprised me because I didn't understand that I thought hey you get older you get smarter and
And once you reach a certain point now you're heading in the other direction
So that's what he's bringing up and he said hey could that be his part of it?
Um
He says such was the case of major general JFC Fuller on December 13th, 1933
Fuller one of the most intellectually gifted man ever to serve in the British army
Was placed on the retired list this waste of talent resulted from the prejudice aroused by his fully borne out prophecies
And the fact that he adhered to criticize those less gifted than him
Now let's think about that we could be mad at the military for kicking him out
But guess what he didn't do
He didn't play the games also criticizing people is probably telling them that they're dumb. Yeah, yeah
He didn't play the game properly. So if you would have played the game a little bit and
Not been a prophet as be a slow-dell heart
Said instead been a leader maybe he could have slowly got some senior officer to understand it make it his ID and all of a sudden
His ideas are getting pushed forward by this in your audience said he gets put on the freaking retired list yeah
And this this thing that you've you've mentioned the past pint isn't exactly a fit here
But that idea of have you're so smart why aren't you winning?
You know like well for a freaking great quote just yeah
This is my tip of if you're smart as you think you are why can't you figure out?
I'm a newver through this this
Labyrinth of chaos. Yeah, you know which by the way if you're so smart how hard how hard could it be you haven't figured this out yet
Right you haven't figured this out yet that
Question which I originally asked myself when I was like an e4 in the sealed teams when I wasn't getting promoted and other guys were
Was hey wait a second if you're so smart freaking their Rambo why aren't you getting per why aren't you winning?
What's wrong with you? Yeah, you idiot, but that's one of my favorite questions to ask people
Hey, because they'll be telling me this and this and this and this and this complaint this other complaint and how this is messed up and the other things messed up
And it's like if you if you are so smart if you're so freaking smart why aren't you just maneuver through this system?
Yeah, what's wrong with you
And by the way
Fuller like they were gonna bring him back in and they offered him something and other guys
I mean, he's just like made it made it too hard on himself, man. Smard us what did this?
What did you say? One of the most intellectually gifted men ever deserved in the British Army
But he wasn't quite winning was he because he got freaking put on the retired list
And look maybe there was some situation where they were asking him to do you know hey
We don't want to see another people like but even if that happens what do you do you say okay?
Go how can I refraise this how can I adjust my message what people can I make allies if you're so freaking smart then go win
Fast 40 yet yet another way in which age determines in competence is through the voluntary resignation of intelligent young officers
According to Janowicz a study of US Army lieutenant suggests that the brighter ones resigned as soon as they have completed their obliquity
Obliquity service while those less well equipped remain
That's again, is that all across the board? Absolutely not and there's freaking incredible officers that are smarter than any civilian out there
That's staying the military and they do 20 30 40 years for sure
And there's also guys that are going
You know I got my paycheck coming in every two weeks kind of regard this of what I do
Mama stick it out and there's a little joke in the military too that that at each love of you you move up. It's
That there's some some truths to it which is hey you got promoted. Yeah, all the good guys got out
Yeah, that's why I got promoted. Yeah, hey, hey Dave you made major. Yeah, all the best captains
Let left so then we're going to enjoy so the joke about bad is you know some truth
There's absolutely some truth of oh I'm glad these two guys bailed because I would have been competing with them
And I don't know if I would have made the cut if they stuck around yeah, but they're left with me so I'm going to I'm going to get that promotion
Yeah, there's absolutely some level of truth to that yeah someone that looks around the military
You know one of the one of the things that made me
One of the one of the things that had a little bit of an influence on my decision to retire was it's a communist
Environment right it's a communist environment you
You you're getting the same promotion rate. I mean what did you get advanced early a couple times?
No, no really promotions to Marine Corps
So that that that says that's there is right so it doesn't matter what you do
So you were you were an F-18 pilot you were top gunners, are you all these things and how how much faster do you advance than did someone that was uh, you know
Running whatever
Freaking supplied in the middle of nowhere
What how much early did you get advanced zero days zero days zero days?
So I got
Advanced early one time which is which was like I only know of one other person
I don't know one person that got promoted early twice. There's probably more but one of the I know one of the person
It got advanced early. He got advanced early twice and that's dealt it Charlie by the way
Delta Charlie talk about play the game DC
He was maneuver
And awesome, but so so I'm looking around and look was either best guy. Absolutely not
But I looked around some guys I said wait a second
Of all the stuff I've done I've been going on back to back to deployments doing whatever I can do
doing a good job
In combat doing a good job
Just doing just doing a good job right look I wasn't the best but I wasn't doing bad
But then I had look at some other knucklehead
That was actually doing bad who had a bad reputation, you know some knucklehead that you know wasn't even in the game
And guess what these getting promoted? Oh, I got promoted one year ahead of that way and by the way
I'll bunch of other great guys that I knew are getting promoted the same time at him. I was like man
That is freaking not right
It wasn't as much of a meritocracy as it should have been and that bummed me out
It bummed me out because I was looking at probably another seven years before I would have been in charge of something again
Which is a long time to be waiting to get in charge. We chuckle that out over there. I quit Charleston
Every time you see that bummed me out first and reason that's always funny to me
Yeah, yeah, it did though it bummed me out
Sorry
This thing's not bummed you out. They do but that expression is funny especially when you say
Yeah
Check
It's a little bit of a communist system. It's a little bit of a socialist system where if you stay in and you check the boxes
Whether you check those boxes with freaking
Big giant checks or you check them with a little nickmark. It doesn't matter you check it you're good
Notwithstanding these considerations ages far from being a complete explanation of military incompetence for
There have been plenty of old generals and some remarkably inept young ones
Or sorry there's been plenty of able old generals and some remarkably inept young ones
So he's saying look even though old people might have a hard time there's been freaking incredible generals that were super old and there's been young generals that were idiots
So that argument doesn't really hold as it backs noted the generals of AD
Generals who were sick of body and even in mind have one important victories. So there you go age
You can't put all this stuff on age, but let us look at another aspect of what appears to be in intellectual incompetence the urge to pontificate
In accordance with the principle that nature of horrors of vacuum ignorance tends to evoke pontification and those that wish to conceal their lack of knowledge
Or for whom ignorance of the facts means that they feel free to express strongly held beliefs of a contrary nature
This is an interesting one and it really if you
You ever seen to movie the six cents. I know you have echo you seen it Dave have and
You know when you get to the end you look back and you see all the things are obvious
This one right here when I read this I was like oh man this is good
You look back at your career and to think of all these people that like to pontificate and you think I knew that guy was maybe it
Well, I got one shot up right wouldn't shot up
Wait, what is pontificate talking talking carrying on talking especially things that you don't really know too much about
It's also not a compliment like if somebody like what's like we're gonna the jacco and I'm like he likes to pontificate a lot
That's not it that's not me saying he's a big thinker
He's me like they do like to hear himself talk he weighs a lot of time thinking out loud and it's all at the end
You look back like that's a complete waste of time
So it's not a good thing. I'd say maybe you the expression hot air
That guy's filled a lot of hot air. This is a nice way of saying
That guy's full of water. Oh, it's not even a nice way of saying as Dave's doing out
You don't say someone hey jacco did a great job pontificating at them at the master
They were you and say that
Some timing associated with it too. He wants a chime in like we need to go a step out and he's like hey
And he wants to start talking and yeah, and we're forced to sit in and listen to him and it's not just what he's saying
It's also the time of which he's saying it. You're just thinking dude
Okay, I guess we're gonna sit here and listen him talk
Okay, I always thought it was like kind of thinking and talking but in a good way
I thought it was like hey, let's get to the bottom of let's listen explore it, you know, but me okay, I get it now. Oh
So with pontification in a calling where the accuracy of communication may be a matter of life or death
The predispotent position to pontificate is a dangerous liability by the way
We have something called the second law of combat leadership. It's simple
The subtitle that is simple clear concise communication
So pontification is the opposite of that oddly enough
Unfortunately such a predisposition it will be the strong the will be strongest in those like head masters judges
Prison governors and senior military commanders who for too long have been in a position to lord over their fellow men
Unfortunately such a predisposition will also be strongest in authoritarian organizations
Where the preservation of apparent omnitions by those above
Maybe deemed more important than the truth
So this is that senior leader that
Basically no one will tell them to be quiet and you know what's even worse than that
People sit there with a big smile in their face nodding their heads cuz you know oh
Chocolate's talking oh yes boss that sounds great. Plus. Please tell us more. It's all a lie
They're really thinking shut up dude
That's what's going on yeah and some of those people are going oh
If I ever get to that's this is how many get to that spot. I'm gonna do that
What a follow like that's what I do that's that's how the system rewards me or I can't I can't navigate that system is
I can do the same thing
It's awesome. I can't wait to let me tell I already get people have to listen to this in me. I can't wait
I know this
Because we sit here and talk for hours of the time as our freaking job not only here, but in echelon front
That's our actual job as to talk to people. I mean echelon front actually our job a lot is to listen as well
But you know people might get the impression that oh, you know
Jocco it's like at the master when I'm guess what I'm on stage I'm talking that's what we're doing
Come to an echelon front meeting
You know see who he's talking like see how much I'm talking right it's come to a task in a bruiser meeting
See how much I'm talking come to a
Seal team seven echo put to in meeting when I was a student commander
Am I the one that's talking all time absolutely not
So although we talk a lot here. This is not the norm
But the important thing about pontification is that though an intellectual exercise
It's origins are emotional
closely allied to pontification and no less hazardous is
conditive dissidents
Now it just just to just to talk about dissonance just the word
It means
Technically what it means is an in-harmonious sound that's technically what it means
It's it sounds that don't match together
So like if you play piano there's certain there's certain keys of the piano
You can hit at the same time and you are right guitar
You can hit certain strings and certain you doesn't sound right that's because they don't match because they're in congruent
They're in disagreement those noises are in disagreement
So cognitive dissidents means that you have things in your head that don't agree
There's things in your head that don't agree and it's what people do and how people handle things in their head that
Don't agree. This is the important part
Because with any situation that you have there's gonna be different sides to every argument
There's gonna be different sides to be if we're gonna go to a taqatarget
Part of your brain should be saying like okay, this looks like something we can get done part of it to say
Okay, there's looks like there's a rata risks as well you got two different things in your head two different
In congruent thoughts in your head they they're not the same
So so cognitive dissidents means I have two things in my head that don't match
How do you handle it that's the question how do you handle it?
This uncomfortable mental state arises when a person possesses knowledgeable beliefs
Which conflict with a decision he is made so that's going even one step further. I've made a decision
And now I'm getting some different information
The following hypothetical situation should make the matter plain a heavy smoker
Experiences dissidents because the knowledge that he smokes is inconsistent with the
Knowledge that smoking causes cancer since he finds it impossible to give up cigarettes. He tries to reduce
dissidents
By concentrating on justifications for smoking and ignoring
Evidence for its risks. He may tell himself that the revenue from tobacco helps the government
That it keeps his weight down and then it is a manly
sociable habit at the same time. He may well refrain from reading the latest report on the relationship between
Smoking and lung cancer if on the other hand he cannot avoid being confronted by tiresome statistics
He may well strive to reduce dissidents by telling himself and others that the correlation between smoking and cancer could
Just as well be taken to signify that people who are going to get cancer anyway tend to smoke in order to ward off the disease
So you're just telling yourself lies to try to try and even out that disagreement in your own head
Since it was first
Propounded by a festinger in 1957 dissonance theory has given rise to a large number of empirical studies
Through the though the precise nature of the underlying psychological processes as far from clear
There are certain conclusions which could have serious implications for military decision making
They may be summarized by saying that quote once the decision has been made and the person is committed to a given course of action
The psychological situation changes decisively
There is less emphasis on objectivity and there is more partiality and bias in the way in which the person
views and evaluates the alternatives and
quote in other words decision making may well be followed by a period of mental activity that could be described as at the very least
Some what one cited
Yeah, dude you I would he like I got halfway into that sentence and you were just shaking your head because you know you seen this happen totally and he you know
He you did that list earlier and I the one that was
Coming back to as you're talking about in the hard part about as you can you can I know what you're gonna say before
He's saying and now you know what's coming when he's describing this is here's the plan
Jocco's down in the front sends me a report. Go hey boss things are mess things are messed down here
I'm like
No, they're not that better, we're fine
We need it. We're just gonna keep doing this or like hey listen it's got much worse and
Rationalization all those words, but the the
willingness to just ignore the truth because it is inconvenient with the conclusion I've already drawn and how quick let I can go
You know what his feedback is you know It's based on what he's seeing
It's not really he doesn't know it's going on it's that other big picture so we're just gonna keep it
plus chocolate's kind of emotional.
Plus he's, you know, it just started.
He has now that much combat experience.
He's getting shot at, yeah, she's freaking out.
But this is, he doesn't see where I'm trying to get.
I mean, you just rationalize that shit all day long.
All day.
You know, here's another thing you were talking about.
Like, what is it?
What is the cool military leader?
What do we think of, here's one.
Would you say, I want to promote this guy
who has a lot of self doubt, right?
Are you?
We're not promoting that guy.
But what's interesting is I am so filled with self doubt
that when I come up with a plan and Dave Burke sends a report
back from the front line is like, hey, Jock,
we got heavy reasons here.
I'm like, okay, I must have been wrong.
I'm sorry.
I'm missing something.
Does this mean I'm not gonna freaking push forward?
No, it doesn't mean that.
But it means I'm actually doing the opposite of this,
trying to balance out the dissidents.
I'm paying more attention because I think I might be wrong.
The irony in that truth, the irony is
is how you've described you having a reputation
of being so decisive in your time and the teams
was based on that belief that you could be wrong,
which is why you've made these incremental decisions.
It didn't or commit to the end.
Was actually driven by what you just described.
It's, you know, the term self doubt
doesn't have like this positive connotation,
but it's like, oh, hey, I bet you're this bunch of things
I don't know.
So you know what I shouldn't do over commit.
Which was based on you having a reputation of being decisive
which people can equate to the opposite of self doubt.
I'm so secure in my decision making process
that I know the outcome and this is the course
that we're going on.
It's exactly opposite of what you're doing,
which is the incremental piece and go,
hey, I got some feedback.
Yeah, boss, here's some feedback.
This was this blew up in our face.
We ran into a brick wall.
Three vehicles are down and we can't keep going.
And you're gonna go, oh, we need to do something
different right now as opposed to,
hey, just keep going.
We're sticking to the plan.
Yeah, and that's true, not only on the battlefield,
but it's also true in a conversation
with another human being.
It's also true when I say, hey, Dave,
what's your plan with this client?
Or here's how I think we should approach this client.
I'm not saying this is how we should approach the client.
I'm like, hey, I got an idea of what we could do
with this client, what do you think?
It's having a freaking open mind is what it is.
And the minute, I said that while I go like,
are people's minds, they're either opening or closing.
And we can have some control over that.
You can control whether you leave your mind open
or whether you let your mind close,
or at least I think.
Well, let me, let me rephrase that.
I think people have the ability to control
whether they open their mind,
but they don't have as much control over.
If you're not conscious about your mind, just close up.
And oftentimes we're looking
our cognitive biases to just close that mind.
I don't wanna hear what Dave has to say.
So I think what we have to do is you have to form
a habit of trying to keep your mind open,
pouring it open.
And I have to go back to the muster,
I went back to that old conversation.
How often do I have to admit that I'm wrong?
And you know, I asked them,
entire crowd at their muster.
How often do you think I have to admit that I'm wrong?
And everyone thinks I'm humble,
they go all the time, yeah, probably 10 times a day,
you admit that I'm wrong.
And I'm like, no, almost never.
I almost never admit that I'm wrong.
Why do I almost never admit that I'm wrong?
Because I never go into a conversation,
telling everyone that I'm right or even thinking that I'm right.
Yeah.
So therefore I don't go in the conversation,
saying, Dave, we need to do this with the client.
And then Dave goes, well actually,
I talked to the client,
here's what's going on, here's what they actually need
and I have to go damn it, I was wrong.
No, instead I say, hey, Dave,
here's what I'm thinking, what do you think?
Yeah, that's one example of a hundred conversations
that I have where I could go in there
and try and be right.
But instead I go in there with an open mind,
instead of a close mind, it's so counterintuitive
to think the connection between never being wrong
or never having to, or rarely having to admit to the wrong
isn't because you're right all the time.
It's because you never entrench yourself in a position
and the saying could be said for why you and I,
whatever the better word is for argue, for disagree.
Like how often you duck a disagree on a plan.
It's like, well almost never.
Like, oh, you must be perfectly on a line of everything.
No, I just, I haven't predetermined the next 37 steps
that we're gonna do neither a C and we'll move
and I'll do it his way sometimes.
We'll do it.
My will get somebody else's input
and none of us are committed to an outcome
and the reason why we're disagree,
we don't disagree on what we should do
is that neither one of us come in
with the conclusion of what we should do
and how counterintuitive that is is the idea
that the more committed you are,
the less you will, the less you'll admit that you're wrong.
And the exact opposite to show is the reason
I'm doing it that I'm wrong, very often,
it's because I don't walk in thinking that I'm right.
Yeah, and actually you and I are very committed to an outcome.
We're committed to having the best possible outcome we can have.
With nothing to do with which outcome,
which course is how we get there.
It's like, oh, this is the best possible outcome.
Dave came up with a way to make this the best outcome.
Well, possible outcome, that sounds awesome.
I'm in.
We'll do that all day long.
Yeah.
Ah, fast forward a little bit.
By the way, you get the book.
I haven't said that yet today.
So we're skipping all kinds of stuff,
but there's so much information in this book.
Those commanders with weak egos,
with over strong needs for approval
and the most closed minds will be the very ones
least able to tolerate the nagging doubts
of cognitive dissidents.
In other words, it will be the least rational
who are the most likely to reduce dissidents
by ignoring unpalpable intelligence.
So the person who can't tolerate those doubts
will just shut them out, which is a horrible thing.
Fast forward a little bit.
No better example is this an afforded by Townsend's
Occupational Cut since the advance up the Tigris
was totally unjustified by the facts
of which he was fully aware his dissidents,
when disaster struck must have been extreme
and to a man of his egotistical nature
depending of incident resolution.
So again, in the face of much contrary evidence,
he withdrew into cut.
The wiser and possible course of retreating debaust
would have been a greater admission of the lack
of justification for his previous decision
by the same token once inside cut.
Nothing would budge him because to break out,
even to assist those who had been sent to release him,
would have emphasized his lack of justification
for being there in the first place,
ensure an inability to admit one has been in the wrong
will be greater, the more wrong one has been
and the more wrong one has been,
the more bizarre will be the subsequent attempts
to justify the unjustifiable.
This is when people may just seem like they're freaking crazy.
We can now see the relationship between pontification
and cognitive dissidents.
Pontification is one of the ways in which people
try to resolve their dissidents.
I'm sorry, dissidents.
But there is another aspect of decision making,
no less hazardous, it is riskiness.
Research has shown that people vary in the degree
to which they adjust the riskiness of their decisions
to the realities of the external situations.
Individuals who become anxious under conditions of stress
or who are prone to be defensive
and deny anything that threatens their self-esteem
tend to be bad at judging whether the risks they take
or the caution they display are justified
by the possible outcomes of their decisions.
For example, they might well adopt the same degree
of caution whether placing a small bet
getting married or starting a nuclear war.
There is a sad irony about this state of affairs
for it means that those people who are most sensitive
to the success or failure of a decision
will be the very ones who make the biggest mistakes.
Conversely, less anxious individuals
will act more rationally
because they are able to grow the vote greater attention
to the realities with which they are confronted.
So when you got people that are nervous about decision making,
they're nervous about failing, they're nervous about,
oh, I better win this.
It's like what you see happen in sports, right?
Basketball teams up by 10, 12 points,
they're doing good.
They go up by 20 points, they start hitting three pointers.
There's no pressure anymore.
They're just like letting it fly.
That's when they do their best.
So someone that can go into a situation and say,
yep, there's some risks here, but I'm not worried.
If I look stupid, whatever, I'm doing the best I can.
Cool.
And then you look at the rational situation.
If you're in the like, oh my God,
I'm gonna look like such an idiot if I don't get this right.
This is gonna be horrible.
Guess where your focus is.
It's not on the realities of the situation.
It's not on rationalizing a good decision.
It's just focused on how bad you're gonna look if you screw it up.
So you make a bad decision.
So you're more likely to screw it up.
It's crazy.
Once I call it just to set,
under stress,
men are more likely to act irrationally
to strike out blindly or even to freeze into stupid
immobility.
That's what stress does to people.
I've seen it.
You know, when you see that,
I've seen it in like a few cases
where someone stressed out and combat,
I may kind of lock up and you gotta kind of shake them out of it.
I've also seen it on you.
If you look at it,
broadly over a full deployment.
And you see people that are usually pretty solid
and they start either getting angry.
You start rational,
they start making dumb decisions.
And like, this stress is getting to you, man.
That's what's going on.
You gotta back them off a little bit.
But why should anxious and defensive individuals,
those who are,
those who have the most to lose,
act more irrationally than those less afflicted,
afflicted by neurosis.
Two reasons have been advanced.
The first has been well-stated by Deutsch,
some guy, I don't know who it is.
Didn't look it up, sorry.
Nervousness, the need to respond quickly
because of the fear one will lose
either the desire or ability to respond.
Enhances that likelihood that a response
will be triggered off by an insufficient stimulus
and thus makes for instability.
You know, it's a freaking good example of that.
Someone, you put someone in like a shooter situation
with simulation and you're like,
all right, go in the house.
If they've never done it before,
are they super nervous?
They're freaking shoot in the first person
that they see whether all the weapon or not, right?
They're gonna be quick to respond with fear
because they're nervous.
And the more you train them to that,
the better they'll get.
The second reason why I'm a proportion of people
will make irrational decisions
whose riskiness is unrelated to reality
is because being neurotic, they will strive
to maintain an image of themselves
as either quote bold and daring and quote or quote
as careful and judicious decision makers and quote
and the urge to sustain their particular conceit
will take precedence over the need to behave realistically.
So, luckily for me, like you were talking to
about me making small decisions,
luckily I figured that out
because I like being a person that's known as decisive
but luckily I figured out I could look and appear
and be decisive by making small decisions.
So I didn't have to try and figure everything out
everything I want, which is what I recommend to people do.
He closes out this chapter saying,
since decision making is by definition
a cognitive process, then obviously the oldest theory
is in one sense of tourism.
But it by no means follows that the simple hypothesis
of low intelligence fits the bill.
Again, this whole chapter is about intelligence
so he's saying, listen, decision making is about how fast
you can think in your cognitive capability,
but it doesn't cover everything.
On the contrary by looking further into the nature
of decision making process where you're compelled to entertain
another rather different possibility,
namely that the apparent intellectual failings of some military
commanders are due not to lack of intelligence
but to their feelings.
Cognitive dissonance, pontification, denial,
risk taking an anti-intellectualism
are all in reality more concerned with emotion
than with intelligence.
I mean, it's not another thing we say at the mustard.
Who here has made a great decision
when they were super emotional?
No one raises their hand.
That's why we teach people to detach from their emotions
so that you can make good decisions.
Do you detach 100%, no, but you need to detach
so that they're not driving your decision-making process.
The susceptibility to cognitive dissonance, the tendency
to pontificate and the inability to adjust the riskiness
of decisions to the real situation
are a product of such neurotic disabilities
as extreme anxiety under stress,
low self esteem, nervousness, the need for approval
and general defensiveness.
These, it seems, over and above his level of intelligence
are the factors which interfere with what a man decides
to do in a given situation.
They keep made a pretty good case for that.
Not about a smart, you are, it's a smart place, some role.
I mean, obviously, if you're an idiot,
you can make a bunch of bad decisions,
but that's not the major number in this equation.
Most people are making bad decisions based on their emotions,
based on their feelings, based on their psychology.
And this whole thing ties into Dave,
this is what you were getting at earlier.
You got about a whole chapter here talking about what you,
what you started, the road you started to go down,
this chapter is called military organizations.
And it says military organizations make
for military incompetence in two ways,
directly by forcing their members to act in a fashion
that is not always conducive to military success
and indirectly by attracting, selecting and promoting
a minority of people with particular defects
of intellect and personality.
So this is what you were talking about.
Yeah.
How the system will set up to promote,
and this is going one step further.
You talked about how the system can promote people,
they can figure out how they're way to get through it.
And also can attract people like this.
Yeah.
People that are looking for a system
that they can figure out how to get through.
The root cause of all this is that since men are not
by nature, all that well equipped for aggression
on a grand scale, they have had to develop a complex
of rules, conventions, and ways of thinking,
which in the course of time,
ossify into outmoded tradition,
curious ritual, inappropriate dogma,
and that bane of some military organizations irrelevant bullshit,
which we had a conversation on here about chicken shit,
chicken shit and bullshit.
I think chicken shit is the term that's used nowadays.
He's used in the term bullshit.
And he actually throughout this calls it
bull.
I think I'm going to call it bullshit most of the time.
He calls it bullshit here.
But this idea of bullshit, chicken shit stuff
that you're polishing, your belt buckle,
you're polishing your boots,
you're doing all these things,
these things in the military,
you're going to call it chicken shit or bullshit.
But those things are a huge part of some military organizations.
And as we're going to find, there's some reasons for it,
but there's also when it gets out of hand.
Fast forward a little bit,
probably speaking, human activities may be regarded
as falling into one or the other of two main groups.
Those which are directly instinctual
and those which are not.
So we all got some things that we instinctively want to do.
Into the first, which involves what have been succinctly
described as the three F's,
feeding, fighting, and reproduction.
Fall such robust pastimes as
feudalism, professional piety,
prostitution, and soldering.
So look, we got these three F's feeding,
fighting, and reproduction.
And from that, we get things like boxing,
we get things like professional piety,
eating, and chefs, and restaurants.
We also get prostitution.
We also get soldering.
Those are all kind of, you can marry those up
from where those came from.
Into the second group, fall all those other vocations,
which, though, sometimes,
subserving the basic drives,
do not have as their end product,
the original consumer territory response.
Besides this most important difference,
the instinctual vocations have three other characteristics,
which differentiate them from those in the second category.
They may involve unlearned patterns of behavior,
are motivated by crude, if powerful emotions,
fear, lust, and rage, and are designed to culminate
in an unlearned response of a distinctly physical kind.
So those are the three F's, right?
They're, you've got powerful emotions tied to them,
fear, lust, and rage, and they,
where they get you is something physical.
You're eating, you're fighting, or you're reproducing.
It goes into prostitution, but prostitution is easy
because the transformation of an unlearned drive
into a money-making career is more a matter
of realizing a potential than seriously modifying nature.
And he goes into this thing about this guy
who interviewed prostitutes, and this one prostitute said,
I've been working in a factory for five years
before I realized I was sitting on a fortune all the time.
I kind of had to throw that quote in there.
It goes on down the same path,
talking about a professional soldier.
The original purpose of interest species aggression
is not destruction, but distribution.
So why do people fight, why do animals fight?
Because we got to freaking get away from you a little bit.
You can't get too close to me, not too close to my resources,
not too close to my woman, like you need to get your own
activities going.
This is my A.L. who's my area of operations.
In lower forms of life, the instinct of aggression is controlled
by a language of signs and countersign,
so that everyone remains spread out with a minimum amount of bloodshed.
Moreover, those animals best equipped to do each other.
And injury are also those with the most effective controls
against so doing.
A dog, tackless enough to encroach upon a rival's territory,
maybe come involved in a noisy scuffle,
but has only to drop his tail, roll over,
and urinate to terminate the attack upon his person.
Right? So that's what animals do.
And even going out, L.C.T.
The elk, they fight hard and occasionally do kill each other,
but most of the time, they just aim in, like,
I'm dominant, you go away, and the guy's like, cool.
So that's the way it's supposed to be.
You're supposed to be able to sort of surrender back up,
give some space, and that makes sense.
So that's the difference.
The point that he's trying to bear here is,
hey, I'll prostitute, she's still doing something that just makes sense
on an instinctual level, right?
Whereas humans with war, things all of a sudden aren't so instinctual anymore.
Because now, look, if it was in caveman days,
and you came into my territory, I'd probably beat you up and you'd run away.
And I'm not going to waste any energy trying to go catch you.
I don't care, you just stay away from me.
Well, when we get to war, now it's a lot different.
So he goes into that a little bit.
Humans, they have made up for a lack of natural weapons
by acquiring some far more deadly artificial ones, right?
We don't have horns on our head.
We don't have big teeth where we can rip each other apart.
Sure, we can choke each other if we have to do it.
We don't.
But we don't have these things so we make other weapons, right?
Clubs, spears, knives, guns, missiles.
Yet other difficulties, and this is where you're going to take
everything we just talked about, and now we're going to take it
into this military context.
And this is something that I have talked about before.
I've talked about the difference of decentralized command.
And when you have centralized command,
and the fact that when decentralized command
started to come to fruition is when you didn't have conscripts anymore.
You had people that you could say, all right, here's
what we're trying to make happen, go make it happen.
You have to say, this is what you need to go to go do it.
And if you don't do it, I'm going to shoot you.
That's a different type of discipline.
It's imposed discipline versus unit discipline.
So we're going to get into that a little bit here.
Yet other difficulties have been posed
by the sheer size of human-waring groups.
With the transition from small parties of hostile tribesmen
to large mercenary armies came problems of motivation and control.
So if you, if there was just the five of us and our clan,
and we were just event, I didn't need to motivate Echo
to do his job.
If you didn't do his job, we were all going to get overrun
and we're all going to die.
So there was no real reason for me to have to impose discipline
on you.
We just had it.
We just knew that we had to fight together.
We knew if we got overrun there,
we're going to come and take our food and take our women,
and that was game over for us.
So there wasn't any real need to to vote, quote, motivate you.
But things are bigger now.
Since the history of warfare is largely that of many who,
though through poverty or the press gang,
were forced to take up arms for a cause
which few could even comprehend the evoking
and direction of aggression called for special measures.
So once we have an army where Echo doesn't really quite sure
why the hell.
He knew when it was our cave, our little area
and we were defending our tribe, he understood that.
But once he's like, all of a sudden, he's in a foreign country.
And I'm giving him a musket and I'm saying,
OK, dude, we're going to fight.
He's kind of thinking, wait a second.
I don't even live anywhere near here.
So now we need to come up with some special measures
to get Echo to direct his aggression towards the enemy.
How do we do that?
These included devices to ensure group cohesion,
to incite hostility, to enforce obedience
and to suppress mutiny.
Because once again, I put, I take Echo on a ship,
give them a sword and be like, OK, dude,
we're going to go and fight these people you've never seen before.
They're not close to your family.
They're not close to your area of operations.
And not only do I need to get you to hate them,
I need to make sure you don't freaking just turn that sword
to me and cut my head off.
Because it doesn't make any sense, right?
It doesn't make any sense to Echo Charles,
who's got his tribe.
It doesn't make any sense for you to go to some other place
and fight.
So how are we going to make that happen?
Well, we got to make group cohesion.
We got it in sight hostility against the enemy.
We got to enforce obedience and make sure we don't have a mutiny.
They also included means whereby the intentions of leaders
could be translated into a concerted action by followers.
In short, it called for two other components of militarism.
Firstly, a system of rewards and punishment of rank,
metals, battle emblems and prize money.
That's what's somewhat a dangling fun of you, carrot.
Of confidential reports, court marshals and the lash.
There's the stick.
Don't do it to tell you, the court marshal you.
I'm going to whip you, whatever.
And secondly, a system of orders and overlearned drills
whereby complex patterns of behavior
could be set in motion by the briefest of instructions.
So I'm actually going to train you.
I like how echo Charles become my soldier today.
You like that?
I'm going to train you.
So I got to end up with a pattern of behavior
that becomes instilled in you.
No less important for a theory of military incompetence
is the means whereby militarism is administered
and its continuity insured.
Originally, so now we're going to get into this.
Originally, since combat was largely a matter of brute force,
we must suppose that the strongest came to the top.
In fighting, as in prostitution, vital statistics gain the day.
A sort of natural selection according to the criteria
that were essentially physical.
But in the course of time, the growing number of personnel
involved and improvements in technique
required some revision of earlier criteria.
A distinction became necessary between organizers
and the organized between the brains and the brawn.
So now, just the fact that echo's the biggest, strongest guy
that doesn't necessarily mean that's
going to make the difference in the battle
because we got a bunch of people.
And if I can organize more people against,
or if the enemy organizes five people just
to fight echo echoes going down.
So I need to get some people to support echo.
Now we got to freaking army.
To this end, civil government might have been expected
to construct armies in which the dichotomies,
in which such dichotomies obtained.
One might have expected that officers would have been chosen
for their brains and the hierarchy of command based
upon merit and professional expertise.
So echo, you and I were on the same tribe.
We've formed an army.
We take all the big guys and we're putting you guys
in the front lines.
That makes sense, right?
Because you're the ones that are going to crush the enemy.
We're also going to take our smartest dude
and be like, hey, you're really good at organizing.
People, you've got a loud voice.
You come up with good plans.
Cool.
Dave, you're going to run this battalion over here.
And Dave's like, cool, got it.
That's the way we should do it.
Dave's proved himself.
He's smart.
Right.
So that's what we're doing.
And that's what we think we're doing.
That's what makes sense to do.
Right?
That clearly makes sense.
However, for example, in Britain, civil government
did nothing of the kind by methods of purchase and nomination,
the control of the army was given over to men who,
with nothing to gain from revolution,
would remain the loyal, apolitical supporters
of the existing regime, professional ability,
energy and dedication of the job counted for little.
So that's not how they selected.
They didn't say, hey, who's better at decision-making?
You know, echo, you know what?
You're going to be front lines.
Dave, you know, you got those quick thoughts.
We're putting you in command.
What the British do?
No.
You know what they said?
Who's going to be loyal who can pay the most?
We'll put you in command.
By the way, so check this out.
How does that work?
Dave, you have money to buy a commission.
What do you think of the system?
What do you think of it?
Yeah, I like this.
You like the system.
And you want to, importantly, you want to maintain the system.
Absolutely.
Echo, you kind of broke.
Right?
You don't, you don't really like the system.
Because you have been able to succeed in it.
You probably want to change the system.
So you know what?
I'm not putting you in charge.
I'm going to put the guy in charge that succeeded in the system that wants the status
quo.
He wants to protect.
He's going to fight and he's going to use you to fight, to protect what he's already
got.
Status and money.
That's the dynamic.
That's what he means when he says, man who, with nothing to gain from revolution, would
remain loyal.
He can pay for this.
The reason he can pay for this is because he's done all right in the system.
How do I benefit from a revolution here?
Yeah, I don't want that at all.
No, not at all.
So you're willing to.
So once I give you a position and I give you authority, you can actually use your authority
now to maintain the status quo, which is what you want.
And by the way, you can also impose your status quo.
Because if you guys go take over another chunk of land, guess who's going to get it?
Not Echo.
He fought for it, but Dave's going to get it.
Maybe we'll give Dave, we'll give Echo a little sliver of maybe you get some little bit
of gold, you're in a little bit of booty for you.
But Dave's going to get the land.
So we'll keep you a little bit happy.
But Dave wants this to succeed.
And Dave's going to sacrifice a bunch of you, a bunch of echoes for this situation.
Fast forward a little bit.
The central nature of militarism should now be clear.
We see it as an ever-increasing web of rules, restrictions, and constraints presided over
buying a leap.
One of whose motives was to preserve the status quo, exactly what I just said.
How do I keep Echo in line?
Here's the rules.
Here's your uniform.
Here's what you've got to do.
If you step out of line, guess what's going to happen?
You're getting the lash.
You're getting punished.
You're getting no pay.
You're getting bread and water.
So that's what we set up.
But this incompetence is augmented by another factor, namely the characteristics of some
of those attracted to the military.
Let us examine this hypothesis by modern standards and viewed from the outside the nature
of militarism may not seem very attractive, including as it does, a number of attributes
which are positively repellent to those who value freedom, egalitarianism, and creative
as opposed to destructive ends.
So if you think about what the military is, hey, you're going to follow orders.
You're going to have to dress the way you get told to dress.
You're going to have to cut your hair the way you get told to cut your hair.
You have to wake up when they tell you to wake up.
You're going to go to bed when they tell you to go to bed.
If you're a person that values personal freedom, why are you going in there?
Why is that happening?
If you want to create things in the world, why are you going in the military?
You're going to military to destroy things.
You're going to have to go to the military.
He said, I would be left to kill people from my country.
That's attracting a certain person, not someone that wants to create, someone that wants
to destroy.
Why then do people join the army and are there some characteristics of the military,
which have a positively magnetic attraction for those who subsequent performance may be deemed
incompetent?
So who we bring it in here?
He makes a comparison to alcoholics anonymous.
He says, alcohol anonymous is anonymous.
Can attract people an individual with particular problems of a psychological kind, maybe
expect it to gravitate towards a group which he recognizes not only as containing fellow
softwares, but also as having developed effective ways of dealing with special needs
of its members.
The therapeutic gain from such behavior during the Second World War has been noted by Robert
Holt.
He wrote, it was a common clinical observation during the war that military service was an
unusually good environment for men who lacked inner controls.
The combination of absolute security, a strong institutional parent substitute on whom one
could lean on obtrusively and socially approved outlets for aggression provided a form
of social control that allowed impulses to be expressed in acceptable ways.
By the way, when you join the seal teams, you're joining the seal teams so you can kill
people.
Or at a very minimum, you're joining the seal teams knowing that you may have to kill
If you're going to join the seal teams, you're going to go through that.
There's got to be some actual, in my opinion, desire to kill people.
That's what you want to do.
Dave, you didn't go in the Marine Corps thinking, hey, I'd like to fly a jet.
No, you want to fly a jet.
That's what you want to do.
This is an acceptable way that you can go fly a jet. Did you want to get in a dogfight?
Yes.
What's the outcome of a dogfight?
Either winter you lose.
What happens to the looser?
The loser dies.
Here all these military people are signing up for their aggression to be expressed in an acceptable
way.
Surrounding by people who see it the same way.
That's the thing.
You look at alcoholics and honest.
These are the other people deal with.
And you look at the military, like, what kind of law?
That sounds like they're cool way to go.
I also understand why you feel the way you do, why do you think the way you do.
That scene that you can see, that connection.
So easy to see that connection.
He says even a troop of bad boons contrives a rigid dominance hierarchy where in each
male knows its place.
It's kind of like the military.
Very nice, getting there and you can see when some people in the military, when they
win their that bad boon that gets their spot in the hierarchy and they want to flex it on
everybody.
You can see those people all day long.
And again, is this everyone in the military?
Absolutely not.
It's absolutely not.
No, but there's a piece of that formalization of that hierarchy.
And in the military, I'm sure it's the same way with you.
There is still an unspoken hierarchy.
There is a pecking order that isn't written down.
There's a roster that we don't write on the boon and go, okay, you know, Jocco's one
echoes two, Dave's three.
It doesn't say that, but everybody kind of knows this stuff.
And if it's not pure, there's at least some groups, some catty like a couple guys here
come guys here.
And everybody knows it.
But the system can offset that a little bit by creating, well, utilize that deliberate hierarchy.
Which means like maybe Dave's like seven kind of sucks.
But I do whatever I can do.
I'm maneuvering.
I actually I get promoted or I get a task or I get actually some deliberate hierarchical
authority.
Right.
And now I can kind of like, now you know why revenge can get past.
Yes, because I hate, hey, we all know where I was, but that was unwritten, but I'm
in charge now.
And then the psychology of that power, which sort of fixes the problem with the unspoken
hierarchy, and the things on the, you know, in that, you know, those bad boys don't have a chart.
They just know.
And there's nothing that number seven's going to do to go, well, I got a formal piece over
here that sort of allows me to impose my will on you.
And I mean, I've been writing things on self esteem ego, the 20 different versions of that
word that he's used so far in this book, which all comes down to the insecurity, all those
different words that he's using.
The military delivers some authority for the people that have that that is kind of undeniable
in the system.
And again, not everybody, just like you said, this is not everybody, but it is there.
It is there.
There's, there's nothing worse than when somebody who thinks they should be in charge,
actually gets in charge.
Those people are the worst.
The people that sit there and think, churches are just fuming.
They're thinking, Archbishop, I can do such a much better job and they're, what their
thoughts are and when they actually get put in charge, they're a freaking disaster, they're
nightmare.
Oh, they become the head baboon.
As at a human level, armies resemble the authoritarian family group, just as the ethos
of an upper class Victorian family totally forbade any show of aggression by the child
toward its parents.
But encouraged, organized, aggression towards contemporaries in such school pursuits as boxing
and sanctioned a bullying.
So in the army, the slightest hint of in-subordination, I.E. aggression directed towards
superior, is severely punished while aggression towards the enemy is encouraged and rewarded.
Got to set that up.
Got to keep it under control from a psychological point of view, therefore militarism strives
to maintain that paradoxical state of affairs where feeling angry may well be totally split
off from aggression.
One in which a soldier is required to suppress his aggression towards his superiors whom he
may loath while venting it upon a hypothetical enemy towards whom he well may well entertain
no hostile feelings.
The class example of this on Orthodox behavior occurred on Christmas Day, 1914, when British
and German troops joined together for convivialities in no man's land.
This guy's vocabulary is very impressive, by the way.
Needless to say, these reprehensible flickering of humanity were quickly stamped out by the
generals on both sides.
We all know what happened.
The Germans and the Brets were like, we're not fighting anymore.
We're not playing soccer.
And then the generals like, no, you will bomb them.
They'll Roger that.
It is just because the business of a soldier is destruction and violence that need to take
general precautions against disorder becomes so pressing.
Because you really, you got a bunch of freaking, you're training people to be aggressive.
And you've got to somehow make sure they don't point that aggression at you.
The aspects and question may be assumed under the general, effinkly impolite heading
of bullshit.
So important is this curious phenomenon that it deserves a section to itself.
So now we have a chapter that's called bullshit, which I already mentioned.
This is the little stupid things that you're doing.
So this is covered in this next section, this next chapter, which is entitled bullshit,
chicken shit, whatever.
According to Eric Partridge, the word was coined by Australian soldiers in 1916 coming
from a country whose armed forces have always been relatively free from this element of
militarism.
They were evidently so struck by the excessive spit and polish of the British army that
they felt moved to give it a label.
Going a little further back at his possible at the expression has its origin in a bull,
the false hairpiece worn by women between 69,000, 1770.
This would be consistent with the fact that modern dictionaries defined bull as quote,
a ludicrous, just, a self-contradictory statement to cheat, empty talk, absurd, fussiness,
overdress, and quote.
Whatever its etymological significance, such definitions certainly capture the military
nature of bull, one of the most astonishing, apparently irrational, and yet significant
aspects of militarism, one which connotes an attitude of mind, a pattern of behavior as
and an end product.
As implied by the old jingle, quote, if it moves, salute it, if it doesn't move, pick
it up, if you can't pick it up, paint it and quote.
The phenomenon involves ritualistic observance of the dominant submission, relationships
of the military hierarchy, extreme orderliness, and a preoccupation without word appearances.
This is what we call chicken chicken.
The term painting rocks comes from the Marine Corps, right?
I think so.
I've heard that, Kermit 1000 grams.
I can't say that I know for sure, but I think that's right.
I can definitely say I have seen way more white painted rocks on the Marine Corps bases than
any other base.
Right.
So does it mean they'll take rocks and paint them white in black color and white.
Oh, I'm like bullshit.
How about you, kiddo?
It's rock, kiddo, I'm like the paint is a rocks before.
He's painted some rocks.
So in the military manifestations of bold range from such minor apparent absurdities as
the polishing of the backs of cap badges.
So what that means echo is you're polishing something that's never going to be seen.
But someone's going to inspect it.
It can't be seen, but you're going to do it.
The blanking of trees for forthcoming general general inspection, I look up blanking because
I didn't know what it was.
So blanko was like a powder paint that they used to issue so you could camouflage things.
But eventually, of course, took it to the extreme and now we want all the trees to be the
same color.
So we're going to mix this powder paint, which is a military thing and we're going to paint
the trees.
So they're all going to be whatever gray.
That's the kind of that's chicken shit stuff going on right there.
Besides this emphasis on appearance and its constraining aspects of bullshit also involves
a compulsive concern with cleanliness.
In this respect alone, it may achieve impressive levels of irrationality to make it white.
Webbing equipment might be boiled almost to the point of destruction while the blankets
at one sleep that the owner sleeps in stay on washed for weeks.
There are, of course, good arguments for bullshit.
So here's some reasons why it exists, some of the positive reasons.
It ensures a level of alreadyness, orderliness, cleanliness, discipline, personal pride, obedience,
and morale, which so it seems could not be reached in any other means, I.e. by reasoned
as opposed to compulsive behavior.
By the same token, it achieves a level of uniformity that makes for solidarity and group
cohesiveness.
So there's some good reasons for it.
However, the case against it is also strong.
It's time wasting, excruciatingly boring for all those with more than the most mediocre
intellect and a poor substitute for thought.
Since it aims to govern behavior by a set of rules and defines a rigid program for different
occasions, it cannot meet the unanticipated event.
So you're getting trained not to think, you want to do, did you go to OCS?
Yeah.
Okay.
When I went to Navy OCS, the belt buckle that we got.
We had to polish the coating off. There's a coating that comes on the belt buckle's
echoed Charles.
That keeps it shiny.
No matter what, like you can, it's going to keep shiny.
You actually polish that off.
So that it can get eroded so that you have to polish it more.
That's some chicken shit.
Some bullshit right there.
We had anodized and non-anodized.
Anodized is the permanent thing that is always brass or shiny.
You are not a lot of, you have anodized gear.
So all of your stuff, your belt buckle's everything.
None of it could be anodized.
That was reserved for like some other people.
And so you had to, by the unanodized and then shiny to make it look like it was.
Yes.
Good use of time.
Wait, we had to, man you were, yeah, unanodized.
Right, it's the freaking belt buckle's.
And next level, you could see it slowly coming off and you sitting there with a cotton swab
and just hours.
See, even echo's confused by this.
Yes, kind of nonsense.
It's total nonsense.
It's called brass.
Oh, brass.
Yeah, you definitely use brass.
That's what got it off.
Right.
Like any compulsive symptom, bull shit and it's cousins, ritual, dogma and superstition have
put themselves so far beyond reason thought that they could, that they create resistance
to change and the acceptance of new ideas.
Take military drill.
This starts as a skill adapted to a reality situation.
Right.
We used to have to do close order drill for combat.
It develops into a rigid pattern of behavior by becoming automatic takes the load off
of memory.
So you drill that and we still do this today.
You don't call it military drill, but when you're doing immediate action drills with
your weapon, you're learning how to wrap tack and bang, you're learning how to solve problems
without having to think about them.
Takes the load off the memory.
Once learned, it is, it is directed by processes of which we are scarcely conscious
and which leave the limited channel capacity of conscious experience, mercifully free to deal
with other more pressing events.
That's why you can reload your weapon without having to think about it and that way you can
figure out where I'm going to maneuver my element to last.
Next, that's drill.
That's good.
It is drill in such a sense which ensures that most motorists let off the handbrake
before engaging the clutch and that most speakers construct their sentences according to the
rules of language.
Right.
We don't have to think about that military drill.
This way, the devices which could eventually weld together a group of uneducated peasants
into a single corporate machine that did what it was told.
This was all good except for one thing.
Ritualization implying the tendency to transform means to an ends.
Thus the battle drill of one error becomes the ceremonial drill of another.
What started out as a functionally useful maneuver becomes a highly stereotyped pattern of
movements on the barracks square.
And itself, this may be no bad thing.
So this is where these things come from.
That's where they came from.
When you see the people doing the closer to drill, like the Marine Corps silent drill team,
it used to have a purpose.
And it's not a bad thing necessarily.
Ceremonial can be pleasing to the eye and anoddine for taxpayers and even on occasions
a device for raising charitable funds.
Dude, you're talking about the blue angels.
The hundred percent.
Yeah.
And I mean that in like you subscribe in a good way.
Right.
That's a good way.
And it's based on at one point, hey, we're going to fly together.
My wingman's going to be a cup, you know, whatever.
Very close to me.
But now we're going to take what is there seven of them flying at the sun?
Six.
Now we're going to take six aircraft where we three inches from each other.
And it's taken to the extreme.
And it has some benefits.
It's going to recruit people.
It's going to be the taxpayers can see that we've got something.
And we can raise money.
So it's positive thing.
But unfortunately, Ceremonial drill like other forms of bullshit is addictive.
And by being so who serves the time and energy, which should be devoted to other more
adaptive pastimes, it then becomes a substitute for doing something else as when the conservative
element in the brigade of guards resisted the adopting of new battle drill because it would
interfere with their existing Ceremonial procedures.
So now we're starting to say, hey, we can't do that because that's not how we do our
Ceremonial stuff.
Fast forward a little bit as a factor in fighting efficiency.
Bull has also been unhelpful in the Navy.
If we were, if we assume that one of the main purposes of the Navy is to defeat the enemy,
and that is in the past anyway achieved by shell fire, it might be supposed that much
time would have been spent on practicing gunnery.
But in the British Navy in the years before the first World War, ship commanders were
actively discouraged from gunnery practice because the smoke might mark the paintwork and
soil the gleaming decks.
The price for this was paid at Jutland.
Did you, when did you came in the Marine Corps in what 1994?
Commission 94.
Did you start your camis?
Oh yeah.
I got into the era of starch.
Okay.
I started before we, we obviously don't do that anymore.
I'll go back in the memory banks.
Yes, totally.
We starched our food camis in the seal teams for almost my entire career.
You had a pair of starch camis.
Yes.
And I remember when the Marine Corps at one point they stopped starching, I was like, they
are so freaking square away.
Yes.
And I remember that time, I mean, you had your set of starched inspection ready camis.
And when you brought them in, they would ask you the level of starch that you want.
Yes.
And you'd say galactic.
Yeah.
I don't want to be able to move.
I want this to be body armor.
I had starch camis that would stop a freaking 7, 6, 2 by 3rd time.
I thought that when you said it because we went away from a pretty, pretty war.
Right.
It was prewar.
Yeah, so I was working on that.
That's even more impressive.
Yes.
I could see him doing it after September 11th, maybe two years later, be like,
all right, we got a freaking stop.
These, no, you actually did it before the war started, which shows you somebody, this
is why we know we have some good officers out there.
Right.
Because somebody looked and said, wait, why am I seeing this freaking, they lands corporal over
here and it starts to get a camis.
And I feel like overdo it on this, but that piece you said is actually really important.
And using that example is a good example because the new camis, the Marine Corps got, not
only within outstarts, they were designed to be washed and not even ironed, which was
somebody going, hey, ironing your camis is dumb.
And it takes a long time.
And we're going down the path of we're going to start measuring Marines based on how well
they iron their camis, which is a skill that I don't care about.
Yes.
And just no more starratives, you can take them out of the wash and flat, you know, slap
them out and put them on.
And they weren't going to go in and look at crap.
And it is the example of what you just described.
It was like there actually some good people going, this is stupid.
This is chicken shit and we're not doing this.
Yes, that is outstanding.
Also, somebody that needs to be a chicken shit review board.
If I was benevolent dictator of America, I would have a chicken shit review board for each
branch of the service and then I'd have a chief chicken shit review board officer who would
be like a Mustang freaking UDT guy from NAMM.
Also, when I came in, the Marine Corps, there was no name tags.
Did you, did you, were you in that air?
That was.
So you were just, you were just staff sergeant.
What was your name?
My name is staff sergeant.
You can just call me staff sergeant.
That was, that was freaking outstanding.
That was pretty cool.
Fast forward a little bit.
Now that we have touched upon some of the more obvious manifestations of the phenomenon.
Let us examine its deeper causes and relevance to the central thesis of this book.
Okay, so why is this chicken shit come from?
First start, it seems to be a natural product of a authoritarian, hierarchical, or organizations.
Secondly, though it's outward and visible signs are manifold, they have three common denominators.
The first is constraint.
We're trying to constrain people.
The second is deception, which sounds a little bit weird.
The third is substitution for thought.
The deception part is like, oh, we can have you do this instead of doing something else.
The constraint is we're going to control you in the substitution for thought is we don't
want you thinking.
Fast forward a little bit here.
Perhaps the single most important feature of bull is its capacity to delay anxiety.
So, and I'm just going to get into it.
At conscious rational level, or greed or delineus, cleanliness, punctuality, and discipline,
clearly make for efficiency, the knowledge that one belongs to an organization which
puts a premium on these laudable traits that ones rifle or fire, and there is a key for
the bully beef tin obviously makes for confidence.
So these are really positive things about this level of discipline.
At a conscious rational level, therefore, even those aspects of bull, which reflect the
grossest exaggeration of these traits, must seem like steps in the right direction.
This confidence, of course, may be displaced.
That a commander insists upon meticulous attention to detail down to the last shining
button is no guarantee that his strategic thinking is anything other than pure aisle.
Indeed, he could well be unwittingly substituting a lesser for a more important area of
general ship.
That's the substituting part.
Look, as we were saying earlier, Dave, I might not be the sharpest tool in the shed, but
if I can polish this belt buckle and I can put on this uniform and I can get my platoon
to do all that correctly, I'm going to look good.
Nevertheless, there are good grounds for believing that those situations in which bulls
shed flourishes are ones in which it reduces anxiety because orderliness is fairly vital
to survival.
Again, the imposed uniformity, which is part and partial of the bulls, should obviously
make for group cohesiveness and that we're all in it together feeling which combat's
fear.
We must suppose to, that the heightened conformity which it imposes will, like other forms
of perceived conformity, encourage people through a diffusion of responsibility to perform
acts which they might otherwise avoid.
So we've built a team and we've used this to build a team which is okay.
I have a common bond with people that went through OCS that we sat around and Pauls these
things.
It's a real thing.
Yet another useful feature of bulls shed and so it has been said as its role as a
distractor and time filler according to this theory a mind preoccupied with buttons and
cocaps has little room for gloomy for bootings.
The point is well made by AB Campbell when writing of naval customs quote, it is the guiding
principle of naval service that the ships company should be constantly employed and this
is the reason apart from the necessity for scrupulous, cleanliness, why there is so much scrubbing
of decks and polishing of bright work.
There's making people have dumb shit to do because we want the groups to be troops to
be busy.
In the same context this writer compares naval and civilian routine.
There's a reason I read this whole section.
It is safe to say that there are many jobs, many short job routine routines which destroy
initiative.
This also applies to many factory workers but it's not so in the Navy.
A routine job builds up a blue jacket's character as to why the end quote, as to why the
naval and civilian characters should require such a dramatically different treatments, Campbell
refers to the moments of danger which occur for the former but not the later.
Later, this begs of course, several questions.
He said this writer is saying that in the Navy all this bullshit work builds character,
but in this civilian world they don't need it.
They don't need it and it it it it it it hurts their initiative.
The reason that it's okay is because in the Navy you've got to face all these threats
danger.
He says it confuses loss of initiative and blind obedience with the building of character
and makes the unwanted assumption that naval ratings face greater danger than many civilians
including merchant seamen, steeple jacks, racing motorists, mountain climbers, single handed
yachtmen, coal miners, madda doors, not one of whom has to fortify his character by
polishing grass or scrubbing wood.
It would perhaps be true to say that since the imposing of bull upon troops serves to reduce
initiative it will thereby increase the feeling of dependency which they have toward their
superiors this in turn will increase their obedience and loyalty.
So we're getting a little brain washing going on.
You do what I tell you to do.
You do it over and over again.
You become dependent on me telling you what to do and that's what I want.
I don't want to have any initiative.
I don't want you thinking for yourself.
I just want you doing what I tell you to do.
That's why when I am a tyrannical leader or a authoritarian leader I'm super concerned
about your freaking buttons.
Finally at a conscious rational level there are aspects of bull which may well help combat
social anxieties and military men, gorgeous uniforms, martial music, prancing horses
and even being saluted are obviously bomb to tender egos and by promoting soldier repried
do much to offset the hostility and ridicule to which the military are from time to time
subjected to by those in other walks of life.
But there's another less obvious reason for bull namely that it serves to reduce
deeper seated feelings of anxiety which may well have their origins in events unrelated
to here and now of which the subject remains blissfully unaware.
This is where we start to get a little psychological reference there that we have things
in our subconscious that make us a certain way and one of the things he's saying is people
that people that like things to be super orderly, super or orderly they don't like
change, they don't like when bad things happen, they don't like when things that you can't
control, they don't like those things.
And we're going to get to this but kind of person you want the military someone that
can't handle change and unexpected things this is the wrong person.
So if you're a person that looks at the military and goes damn I want a uniform I can
just wear what they tell me to wear I can polish it and nothing changes and that's what
I want, that's great on the parade field it sucks in combat.
The most extreme examples of this phenomenon occur in obsessive compulsive neurosis a condition
which the patient feels compelled to follow a pattern of ritualistic thoughts and acts
that these often include such bizarre symptoms as compulsive handwashing.
This is OCD, a preoccupation with timing and counting, recurrent, rumenative, ideas, stereotype
that verbal utterings and always standing with one toes absolutely in mind has obvious
significance for more military versions of the malaise.
You remember while we were talking about the degrees of insane, right?
Everyone's in say, because everyone's reality is a little bit different.
Well everyone has different degrees of how OCD they are and everyone has some level.
Maybe some people are not, you know, 0.01 but you got a spectrum and the case here is that
if you look at the military and you see people that are all uniform and you see that
everything's clean you look at that as a type of environment I might want to go into
because I'm kind of like that and that's how you end up with people in this zone for
what you guys wrote it down as like this guy is such a good idea.
He called it bomb to the tender ego.
I get it's such a great, it's such a great medicine for that like oh buttons are shiny.
Boots are lined up on the line, perfectly height order, everything is how I want it.
And that is such a good medicine for me, you know, for my tendencies where they came from
and then just like you said is and I made the reference to the bluangles from my they're
literally called the flight demonstration team.
But if you had the mindset that this is a reflection of combat, if this is a reflection
of the challenges you're going to face in the real world, I mean the disconnect there
seems like it'd be so obvious.
But all those stories that he's telling and the first three sections we did to this
is that people going oh my we close order joy of the best close order jope will tune
we're going to be the best blu-tune combat.
Dude yeah it's the I wish that with the this the disconnect was talking about something
else but the end state of all this is real people die at the end of all these stories
which is the worst part about it and then then the ultimate manifestation of that is
is a world of war and of like we are going to get online just like we did on the
break deck we're literally going to get in a line and move in in a line.
I guess insane maybe is a better word.
Yeah.
Yeah speaking of the degrees of what you're OCD he says such symptoms are not of course
confined to the chronic sick so you don't necessarily have to have some big issue milder
forms may well occur in normal population during times the stress bead counting foot
tapping and the mowling of dogma like the compulsion to make things clean and tidy during
periods of menstruation well known palliatives for the stressed psyche.
So this is something that you see people doing when they're stressed they'll say the
Lord's prayer or whatever except for Rose, Fug Rose.
Hmm remember when she fought for the first time against that Chinese girl what's your name?
If you know it.
Oh no it was against Johanna it was against Johanna and so Johanna Dave was like just on a
tear destroying everyone and she had the super hostile aggressive attitude just you know
getting people's faces and she'd been crushing people and she fought thug rose and they
squared off in the face off and Johanna's getting all crazy making their mean face and
everything and thug rose just just straight normal face just saying the loud Lord's prayer
for you to look the growth.
Um he says let us not be around the bush at the risk of offending those with delicate susceptibilities
or though or who themselves have problems in these areas they must be said that they
involve four matters of primary importance in every human life sex elimination eating and death.
These are things that cause us concern.
The greatest anxieties concern death and unconstrained disorder since the two are
inexperably related a defense against one is a defense against the other also this is perhaps the
crux of the origins of bullshit. So we're afraid to die death is a form of disorders we want
to get everything in order. Let us approach this from another standpoint whenever whatever
it's particular form of bullshit results in a state of affairs which is opposed to what many
people would regard as a primary source of delight the natural diversity of nature towards such
diversity it is impeccably hostile. It is no exaggeration to say that this aspect of militarism
is dedicated to the ironing out of differences the efficiency with which it destroys variety
imposes uniformity is matched only by its demand for conformity. So we are going against nature
when you're making everything the same and nature's death is part of nature.
This is against uniqueness uniqueness as market value not for nothing does current advertising
for the quote best car in the world make only one specific claim that no two roles
voices are alike. So there's what we're devaluing uniqueness but bull inverts these values
it worships homogeneity and frowns on deviants whether it's toecaps buttons or dressing by the
left hair length, kit inspection or marching feet the quintessence the quintessence of
perfection resides in conformity to a regulation pattern. This conformity is the product of constraint.
It seems that since bull is primarily concerned with substituting pattern for randomness
it evidently reduces anxiety behind the reduction of uncertainty. So there's a whole idea
psychologically that we just want to make things more certain less random how do we do that? Well
we just make everything the same. If I'm a person that is as anxiety and fear of the unknown
what am I going to do? Let's start trying to make everything the same. That's cool if you're on
the parade field that type of personality is actually awesome if you're on the parade field.
That type of personality that doesn't want anything to be shocking is a nightmare on the battlefield.
Anyone who doubts these soothing effects of bull has only to consider two other situations
of frightening uncertainty, marriage and death, few of played even a minor role in these events
would deny the emotional support that comes from the time-honored ritual of weddings and funnels.
I never thought that before. There's a reason you gotta do this this way. Here it is.
Let's face it. If you didn't set that day on the wedding, if you didn't set that day and have a bunch
of people invited and there wasn't a thing going on, you probably get 50% less of weddings
because people are freaking out. They're like, I'm not going through with us.
Two overlapping theories can be invoked. The argument is simple. Living organisms are complex patterns
which persist for a time within the essential disorder from which they came and to which they
will with equal uncertainty return. So you live, you're nothing and then these random,
freaking biological components fall into a pattern for a certain period of time and then
they all break apart in your debt. Which is a really whippazar way of him saying what I just said.
I think he gets an F on simplicity of that one. Whether it is a single cell,
the integrated systems of the total organism or the external social order,
there exist regulators, controls and constraints whose function it is to preserve the pattern to
keep it from keep to keep this from that to maintain purity and separateness. This holds as true
for biological process as it does for the construction of an urban sewage system. You have to put
controls around things. Indeed, life can be construed as a fight for orderliness in the course of
which much behavior both voluntary and involuntary, both external and internal is directed to this end.
Laws and rules of hygiene, prophylaxis, antibiotics, rejection mechanisms, adrenaline secretion,
and new year's resolutions are just some of the devices which aim to stem the perpetual
drift toward disorder. So that's what life is. You have to stay in order to stay alive.
And you do like you work out to keep everything in order. You try and eat right to keep everything
in order. You make new year's resolutions to try and keep everything in order. You clean your
teeth to try and keep everything in order. It's a fight. It's a fight to keep things in order.
It is of course losing battle. As Oscar Wilde said, good intentions are useless attempts to
metal with the laws of nature. Bullshit represents an extreme manifestation of a general
and necessary propensity on the part of living systems to resist randomness. This would account
for the fact that the satorial aspects of the syndrome are concerned with removing dirt
with maintaining separateness, with keeping green, green and white white, with preserving
status quo, keeping hair short, brass, shiny, rifles, clean, and with maintaining uniformity
by written order shouted commands and other behavioral constraints. But like waking consciousness
in contrast to the dream and normality and contrast to psychosis, bullshit makes its effect
by constraint upon the creativity of thought. He just said all that other stuff that I just said
for that. I'm sorry, it took a little longer. I should have skipped a little bit more. But
all that stuff of trying to maintain order is negatively impacting creativity. That's what
it's doing. And the more you focus on that stuff, the less creative you're going to be.
Bullshit may be regarded as an organization's response to the threat of its disintegration.
So if you're in the military and you don't keep order, there's actually a threat of
your organization falling apart. In the military, this threat has two sources, the external
enemy and the aggressive impulses of its own members. In either case, the greater the threat,
the greater the constraints, which means when you add conscripts that you were trying to get to fight,
you had to freaking tighten those people up, you had to keep it super rigid. You get in a special
operations. That's probably the least rigid because everyone volunteered through your four times to get to
that point where now, hey, I want to be here. So there's a much less constraints.
So that's where we're at. Now, at this point, Dixon, who wrote this book, goes into a bit of,
he goes down some Freud activities here, Sigmund Freud, which is, if you don't know anything about
Freud, Freud was a cocaine addict, I mean, he's at least, he was kind of a liar and a bit of a crack.
He basically spewed out all kinds of crazy theories and a majority of them, I don't know
from my little ones in this, but I'm pretty sure I'm the guy. A majority of them were wrong. A
majority of them were just batshit crazy. Like just weird theories that he thought up, but so
and I would tell you that, Dixon, well, this is again, he wrote this in 1976, this hadn't
progressed. People didn't have as much knowledge. Freud had more people hadn't understood how
we would freaking disaster. Freud was, but he, but Freud did just like a broken clock is right
twice a day. Freud did come up with some concepts that are still used and one of them is just that
we have a subconscious. Now, what Freud thought was that our subconscious was was basically built
before the age of five based on your arrogginess zones and all this weird stuff, right? And that
you, you just weird, just weird stuff. But you do have a subconscious and it does drive things.
It's not based on the way you are potty trained, which a lot of this Freud stuff is based on weird.
I think that dude had some issues. It's some serious issues. You know, I need to get Deryl Cooper on.
We need to do a freaking Freud breakdown with Deryl Cooper and see what's up. But the bottom line is
this guy's a cocaine addict and he's a bit of a quack, but some of his theories were correct.
And then on top of that, regardless of where people develop their personality, we all know that people
have personalities. And you know, like one of those personalities is, comes to the word comes
directly from Freud, which is like an anal, retentive personality. What we all know that type of personality,
it's a type of personality. Does it develop from where someone is how someone is potty trained?
No, actually, it's not where it develops from. We develop from a whole bunch of different things
and a bunch of different people from a different background can end up with that type of personality.
So he was wrong about where these things came from, but there are certain personalities that people have
and some of these things are reflected. We have to deal with. And is someone that's anal-retentive
going to be more apt to look at the military and think to themselves, that looks like my kind of scene,
absolutely. Is someone that's listening to rock and roll and their beds not made and they're
they got the crap on their fort? Is that the part type of person that's like I'd really like to
join the military? It's not, right? It's not. Echo Charles, you weren't like, oh man, you know what?
I'm kind of cruising over here. I'm kind of getting up around the crack of 10 30 in the morning.
Maybe the military's my route, right? That's funny. You said that because I remember back when
my friends were joining the military and you know, military's always an option for kind of floating around
when you're young or whatever. The one thing that stood out to me was like having to wake up at a
search at times. Weird. Yeah. Oh, check. So you got, so he starts focusing on this type of personality.
I'm going to fast forward through some of the Freudian weirdo crap that he talks about a little bit.
He doesn't go. He's only a few pages, but he says it does not need any vast stretch of the imagination
to see more than a passing similarity between these obsessive traits and the practice of bullshit.
But bull also has a two-pronged purpose to combat dirt and prevent illegitimate outbursts of aggression.
Aggression that is towards the superiors and potentially dangerous towards parent figures, right?
So that's one of the reasons we impose these things. It's to keep people in check.
At this stage in the argument, it is necessary to issue a caution. We are not saying that military
organizations are hotbeds of obsessional neurosis, nor that those given to bullshit are
necessarily manifesting compulsive symptoms. On the contrary, all that we have tried to show
is that the anxiety reducing aggression controlling and tenacious nature of bullshit
comes at least partly, explicable. So that you can get it. You can kind of reason with it.
And it's not all bad. And hey, I was freaking very, I mean, I was very into, you got to look
square away. My boots were always highly polished. My uniform was always
starched even my freaking camey uniform. That's the way I was. You know, task unit bruiser,
if you, here's an interesting dichotomy. Once you left our base, our little compound over there,
which was originally called shark base, and then called camp markedly,
if you went off that base, you were in a square away uniform. When you were on that base,
I didn't give a shit what you were. You could wear a freaking whatever, flip flops and a pair of
surf shorts. I did not care. So I wasn't like, you know, I wasn't a militant. I wasn't obsessive about it,
but I understood the value of it in certain situations. Research has shown not only that
psychological arousal is decreased by ritual, but also that under threatening conditions, normal
individuals like compulsive behave like compulsive neurotics. This is when you see people freaking out a
little bit. And they start doing weird, you know, start focusing on some little thing,
because they're freaking out about what's going on around them. Since military organizations
represent par excellence outlets for and consequently defenses against aggression and disorder,
they will tend to attract people who have some difficulty in reconciling these conflicting needs,
people who overvalue aggression, order and obedience. No doubt. This conclusion is supported by the
finding that patient suffering from obsessional neurosis, show improvement during military service.
So if you got a little bit of that activity in your brain, you're probably going to do pretty good.
Then he's got this whole flow chart set up, get the books so you can see it, but you got combat.
And combat causes a bunch of anxiety, death disorder, social disapproval, fear of being
called a coward, fear of your own aggressive impulses. That's what combat inflicts on you.
So how do you deal with that? How do you deal with that? Well, one did way to deal with it is
bullshit, like chicken shit, like polish your boots, dogma, ritual, codes of honor. So we put
these codes in place to sort of defend against all this anxiety. What is that result in? Rigidity,
conformity, traditionalism, over obedience, aversion to progress. And all those things attract
people with personal anxieties about dirt, aggression, disobedience. That's where it gets you.
And what does that do? Increases military incompetence, which by the way then increases the combat
scenarios that you read, which is a freaking nightmare. If the other thing it does, is it attracts these
people. Attracts these people that have, you know, that are the care about appearance, promotional
prospects, disapproval of those higher in their military hierarchy. They're scared of that.
So this is just this horrible cycle that we end up in. Where the anxiety creates this freaking
bullshit and this ritual and rigidity and conformity. And those things actually create, you
to perform worse in combat, which means all those things get worse and you end up in a horrible cycle.
As opposed to someone that's like, hey, now's not the time for that. We got to go fight. We
are that you can actually break out of this cycle. Did it so hard to listen and explain this,
even just something as simple as the word dirt. Like the idea that, and he did it well. Like you
get dirt in a right place. You should shoot a rifle. That's the problem. So we need to be able to
respond to dirt, but the responsive, or I want people that don't want dirt. So I'm going to create a
scenario by which it repels the dirt and doesn't allow the dirt into my system. It's actually not what you
want. If you want something goes, yeah, it's going to get dirty here. And we're not going to react to
the dirt by creating a system that doesn't let the dirt in. We're actually going to encourage
a system of things get dirty. Like, no horse, we can, we can, we can deal with that. Not by
repelling the dirt, but by accepting the fact that it's going to get dirty. And we're going to clean
and deal with those things. But just the way he paints that picture of that cycle of the
psychology of, do you want someone who doesn't like dirt or someone who does like it to be able
to deal with it? And the irony that's inside that is what it attracts is the person that can't handle
it, which is the thing that's going to get you killed. Yes. God, it's part of listen to it is it,
just to just to use these words again. So there's a, there's a dichotomy of leadership, right?
And everything has to be balanced. Right. And yet, when you think of these words, you think of a
military stereotype, rigidity, conformity, traditionalism, obedience. Those are military characteristics
and they are good. Right. They are good. You've got to be, you've got to have some level of
rigidity. You've got to want to conform with what's happening. You've got to be into those traditions.
You've got to be obedient. Those are those are totally awesome military qualities.
And you also got to be able to buck all of those qualities in order to survive and order truly
excel. So even these, these characteristics that he's talking about, you can see that anyone that
has those is going to be attracted to the military. In some level, or I'd say most people that
have some of those characteristics are going to be attracted to the military. The problem comes
when you have a lot of people like that attracted and even bigger problem comes is when people are
getting promoted based on those things and they're not getting promoted based on creativity.
They're not getting promoted based on not being a yes man. They're not getting promoted based on
new ideas. That's not, none of that is happening. You're getting, oh, you're more obedience.
So you're going to get promoted. Hey, if you are going into combat, do you want to work for someone
that has been promoted for 19 years because they've been obedient and rigid and conformed?
Hell, no, hell no. And inside the reaction to the dichotomy to subscribe to
the less balanced you are with that reaction. The more extreme your reaction is, the worse things
are going to be. And if the system reinforces it and the person goes in that direction,
that the inability to react to the dichotomy by being balanced is, yeah, look, do we want someone
that, you know, that will never conform? No, you don't want someone that's never going to
conform. Do we want someone that just can't obey? No, we don't want anyone like that. We're not saying
that. But man, you don't want to go to the extreme or it's going to suck. Yes. All right, one last thing
before we close this section out, he says in other words, this is basically what you and I were
just saying to have. In other words, those very characteristics which are demanded by war,
the ability to tolerate uncertainty, spontaneity of thought and action, having an open mind to the
receipt of novel and perhaps threatening information are the antithesis of those possessed by people
attracted to the controls and orderliness of militarism. That's exactly what you and I were just
saying. And that statement is important to remember. It's important to remember that the best qualities
for good performance in war and therefore good performance in business and life are the ones
that we talk about here all the time. What he just mentioned, the ability to tolerate uncertainty,
spontaneity of thought and action, having an open mind, open to new ideas, even threatening ideas,
having an open mind to threatening ideas, you have many discussions I've had where I won in the
initial conversation in the first four sentences because when Dave came to me and said,
I think we should do this a different way and I said, oh, sounds like you fought this through,
what do you want to do? Do you know how many times I've just had a immediate victory,
immediate victory? And by a victory, I mean, all of a sudden, Dave's not coming on the offense.
He's opening his mind. We're going to be able to come to a positive net outcome
because when he came to me with, I don't like the way we're doing this and instead of me saying,
that's because you don't understand what's happening and all of a sudden we're arguing. And
then I say, oh, really, please, please tell me what you think we should do. Oh, it's so easy.
Wow, critical is that you just to, when you define the winning is getting the out the right
outcome, not winning the arena, and I won because I want the outcome to be right. Yeah, I won because
we figured out the best way to do this and it wasn't Dave's way and it wasn't my way,
either. We actually compromised and figured out the best way to make this happen right.
For you can ridiculous. Those are the qualities we should want. Those are qualities we should
strive for. So we can be better leaders and better people. We'll continue this book next time.
For now, echo, speak of getting, speaking of getting better. Yes. You got neum ways that we can get
better. Yeah. I'm speaking to where it's Dave. I know you got some stuff to do. I do. Why don't you
kick on out of here, man? Right on. And with that Dave Burke had to go, obviously busy.
And well, nonetheless, we're here. We're trying to get better. So what do you got echo, Charles?
Oh, well, I could go into the whole intelligence thing, but in the sake of saving time,
let's just think of the smart thing to do on this path that we're on to improve ourselves.
We're working out, we're reading. So through these workouts and training, we're
so physically and mentally. We might need some help, some supplementation that provides
benefits. Do we all need help? Maybe maybe not. I'm going to say I haven't met people that
didn't need. Okay. They might not. I needed help. But who does not voluntarily accept some
beneficial benefits? We're all going to benefit from benefits. So one of those benefits that we can
have is from a new energy drink that we have. Jockel, discipline, go. Healthy, not unhealthy. So
usual legacy energy drinks that are unhealthy. They provide a good front end benefit, but they
not healthy back end detriment. This one healthy and tastes good and gives you energy all upside.
You know what else provides like a front side kind of up feel good moment. Like, like,
legacy energy drinks. Crystal method. Sure. I'm just saying. Yes, you're the legacy energy
drinks. Think about what they do. They make you feel good for a very short period of time
and then they kill you. Yeah, which is what a traditional legacy crap energy drink is going to
do. Make you feel good for a little bit and then over time you die. Yeah. It's true. Whereas
miraculously miraculously we have made something that gives you all the upside of an energy drink.
Meaning you will feel energized. But later you won't be coming down with multiple diseases
caused by this thing that you put in your body. In fact, the opposite true, you will be more healthy
when you get done drinking one of these than you were before you drink it. Think about that.
There's no one else that's going to say that because they can't because they didn't go to the
degree that we went to to make sure we were making something good for you. Yeah, yeah, man. Yeah,
that's one of those no brainers for sure. And it tastes good. A bunch of different flavors
mangoes the best. My opinion, not Jocca's opinion. But in opinion is one of these things that,
you know, my, okay, my favorite is Jocco Palmer, which is like the, the Tekken Arnold Palmer.
I would not, I don't, I love it. I love it. And it's number probably like five or six out of the
rankings, the sales rankings. All right, like you're not. I don't like it so much because Arnold
Popper is popular. You can go, let me put it this way. You can go to a restaurant tonight and you
can order an Arnold Palmer because people drink Arnold Palmer's and it's a normal flavor for people to
want. Wait, but is that a good one restaurant tonight and get mango drink the answer is no.
Yeah, probably not. So why is that? Why is why is mango, which it is more popular than Jocco Palmer?
Well, it depends. So, wait, is Arnold Palmer an alcoholic drink? No. It's half ice tea.
Yeah, I'm right up. Yeah, I guess. I mean, I don't know. I mean, it's seen. I have no idea.
Here's the thing. Here's, there's, we've been trying to figure that. I've been trying to figure that out.
Part of the reason I think is because I called it Jocco Palmer, which is like an inside joke that
only I got. I don't think people understand Jocco Palmer is kind of a joke about Arnold Palmer.
Oh, and we didn't even spell it like Arnold Palmer. We abbreviated it so I don't get sued.
Oh, yeah, all right. Maybe. Can't be jack and a dude's name and just putting it on your can.
No, it's called a Jocco Palmer POMR. POMR. POMR.
And it, so we're probably going to put it. We're going to we're going to make it more obvious as to
what it is because like I said, I'm not rolling into a restaurant tonight with my wife for dinner
and ordering a mango drink of any kind, right? But I am ordering an Arnold Palmer possibly.
Right, but I guess, and not to go too deep into it, what it like, it's not like you're going to
have a discipline go with dinner most of the time. Seems same. It's like they're just different
context of when you. So if I go to the store randomly, any a snack, I might get one of those little
mango smoothies, I'll be like, oh dang, that's because mango taste good. You see what I'm saying?
Sure, that's like a, this is a drink, bro. Yeah, I'm saying they're all drinks and they're all
drunk. You're going to be one to drink. Yeah, but yeah, I guess no one really drinks mango juice
on a regular basis. But no mango soda. Yeah, but there's smoothie, there's like ice cream, there's
like frozen yogurt, there's like mangoes and go away for this pistachio ice cream too,
when I'm not getting a pistachio soda. But pistachio is a good flavor in general. And that's,
that's my whole point. It's under a defense on the context and what you're experiencing, the flavor.
Do you know what I'm saying? Hey, look, I like jocopommer. I do. I like mango better. Of course,
but either way, it doesn't matter because each person's opinion is individualized to them.
Doesn't matter. You could like jocopommer at a level literally level 10, like the it cannot get any
better. It has no bearing on my own or in my opinion. Oh, what I like? Well, that's where I'm at level 10.
And if you want to get some, get some. Yep. So yeah, again, different flavors.
Get the one you want. Try them all. That's what I would say. Because the mango seems more
risky because it's exotic. Orange, not so much. Seems to be in true. So you might be like,
oh, that's a safe one. You know, but hey, man, with great risks come great rewards, as
a wise man once said. Awesome. Also, on this path, you want to look up after your joints and
immunity joint warfare, super cruel oil. Vitamin D3, cold war. These are all immunity and joint
protective supplements. Don't forget about the mok. Don't forget about the mok, which is the
dessert. It's a dessert that is also good for you. Again, there's not too many desserts that you can eat.
You can relish the flavor and the texture and the whole thing from a, like a taste perspective,
but there's more than that. The whole thing, the whole consumption, you can relish and when you get
done, you're stronger. You're better. The whole experience. Yeah. It's not like when you go down the
freaking. You go down to the local ice cream store in the order of mint chocolate chip milkshake,
and they make it right. And it's good. Yeah. Get a good experience. We're not mad at that.
And then when you get done, you know what just happened. Yeah, you poisoned yourself. Yeah.
That's what happened. You pay a bit of a price. You're paying a big price. And you for sure can't
do it again. The next in the next in the next day. Oh, you don't do that. Don't do that. Yeah,
don't do that because there's something called type 2 diabetes, what you're working on. It's true.
You're in route. Yeah. You're in route. Oh, yeah. If that's what we're doing. If that's what we're doing
every day. It's true. All kinds of heart disease. You got problems. Yeah. Don't do that. Yeah. So you kind of
get a day away from that one. Play this weird balancing game. There's no reason to balance right after
you can go. You can get milk. You can get done with your dinner. You have that sweet tooth,
which is fine. Normal. But you can follow that sweet tooth right to the milk container.
You're going to play any, you don't have to play any balancing game. You just go. Yeah.
As much milk as you want. Much more straight up. You want five scoops of milk?
Good. Gonna be thick. Oh, it's gonna be thick unless you add some more milk. Are you going to
put a scoop of milk? I'm going to put on a three scoop of milk. Yeah. Three is my next five would be.
You're going hard. But you know if they're if you're there. Right up to you. Yeah. Get it.
Call it. Get it man. Get it. Fise because that's a hundred grams of protein. Yeah.
Hundred something. Yeah. Hey, you know, this stuff at jockelfuel.com. If you want to get free shipping,
which look, the reason this isn't a hey order now and get free shipping. There's not what we're doing.
Right. Here's what we're doing. We're competing with one of the biggest companies in the world
who offers you free shipping. Cool. They got a big log algorithm that's figuring this stuff out
and they got all this mass scale and all this things going on. They're trying to get your information.
They're trying to get you into the zone where they can own you. Which is understandable. We get it.
We want you to have an option to still get free shipping and not end with the matrix.
So you go to jockelfuel.com. Stay out the matrix. Oh, yeah. And if you subscribe to one of these
items, which you should, because then you'll be able to get it with free shipping. There you go.
Jockelfuel.com. You can also get the get-in at the vitamin shop. You can get the drinks,
the energy drinks at wall-walk on the East Coast or working on some other convenience stores.
Right now, sorry, West Coast. The convenience terrain, a little bit rough, a little bit rough.
The way it split up and what's where. So we're working it. But if you got a vitamin shop near you,
where you are, you may have worked whatever. Grab it from there. Oh, for sure.
Oh, good. 100%. 100%. There you go. Check it out. Yeah. It's good. Also,
you just do. We're doing jiu-jitsu. To know jiu-jitsu or to not know jiu-jitsu, which one is more beneficial?
We want to know jiu-jitsu. Yes, or we do. I don't care if you know one day of jiu-jitsu.
Spend it in zero days of jiu-jitsu anyway. When you do jiu-jitsu, you're going to need a key.
Yep. Hey, I can only train jiu-jitsu one day a week. So I'm not going to train. It's not the answer.
Yeah, it's true. The answer is I can only train jiu-jitsu once a month. So I'm doing it once a month.
Oh, that's the answer. Yes, sir. You get the chance to train jiu-jitsu. That's what we're doing.
It's true. So when you get your gear, you get the best gear that you possibly can.
Made an America by the way. An origin gear. Go to origin.usa.com for these things.
You get rash cards on there as well. Somebody's on there. Also, from origin. USA.
American-made denim jeans. Come on, Delta 68 jeans. My favorite jeans.
Of all time, by the way. Yeah, and FYI, lay fit me up too because you got, you got a pair of
Delta 68s. And we recut the Delta 68s, probably like, I don't know, six months or something like that.
And to provide more comfort. I dig it. Yeah. So Delta 68s, the best, most comfortable
things that you can put on your legs. And they look good too, by the way. So here, and maybe you
care about this. Maybe you don't. But here's the thing. Factually, this is what happened.
So boom, I don't. I didn't even have to go to called the master. My daughter heard of it.
War the Delta 68 origin jeans to the master. They're pretty new too. And we're a white t-shirt.
My wife likes me and a white t-shirt that don't ask why. It's just how it is. Let's just know that.
These are all things I do not care about. Yes, but the concept, the underlying concept,
I think most of us, it has some value. So she was like, hey, you're looking really nice.
Boom. So you got a no brand Delta 68s. Functional, made in America, look good. Um, you know,
durable, all this stuff. Get these jeans and echo trolls's wife will think you look good. No,
she'll probably won't look at you. Oh, hopefully, don't look at you. But she thinks I look good.
So maybe if you're married or have a girlfriend or boyfriend or whatever, they'll think you look good.
And I'm too. We got work. We got work where coming out, by the way. If you don't know that,
we got work where coming out. So you, when you're out there on the construction site,
you're out there as a lineman, you're out there on the farm. Whatever you're doing, you're working.
We got work where calling, which is made in America. But for real made in America, every ounce of
that thing, every rivet, every, every, every thread, every, every, even the thread itself.
We're making work where for workers, for American workers, made by American workers.
That's what we're doing. Yes, sir. Orgen, USA.com. Also, if you want to get a shirt or had a hoodie that says
discipline equals freedom, or you want to represent this path in any way. Go to jockelstore.com.
That's where you can get this stuff. Some good stuff on there. Some new stuff on there.
So you get to stuff on there. Oh, so you get to stuff on there.
You get to do this section, you know, where look, if you do, you get to. And you kind of want to
represent the path and you get to kind of a hybrid representation scenario. You can do that.
You know, it's cool. I noticed at the master. We have a jiu-jitsu night, the second night. We do
jitsu introduction to jiu-jitsu. And there's more people now. The use of it was no one did
jiu-jitsu. And now, majority of people have done jiu-jitsu. So we're getting in the right direction.
Yeah. We want everyone to do jiu-jitsu. We could keep it a secret, right? That's a kind of an
ego thing, right? If I don't tell anyone about this, I'm just going to be the baddest man on the
board. Just so much more superior. I'm so much more superior. That's a, that's a,
dork. Dorky. Yeah. Because actually, no, you know what? I don't think that's, that's not
called for the dork. That's enough. Go move. Yeah. That's just pure ego. I'm gonna, I'm not going
to teach you anything. Yeah. I'm just going to keep this special thing, this superpower to myself.
Yeah. Because it's kind of surprising that the graces, I think the graces did it right because I think
that as they broke it out, then they started promoting it and teaching it and spreading the word.
I think if they would have failed to do that, they would have been five years behind.
It would have taken an extra five years for people to start kind of figuring out on their own,
just from videos and UFC and all those things. But it just would have been bad. They did the right
thing when it was time to bring it out. They brought it out and started teaching it to people.
Well, actually, I'll kind of in a way do you want better? Probably not even five years when you think
about it because you said because you said they, they, they might figure it out because of videos
in UFC or whatever, the whole existence of UFC is because of how you're crazy. So it's, they
wouldn't have had the UFC. The straight of wouldn't exist. Because it's all it was essentially
demonstration of how effective you did to it and it would be. Essentially what UFC won was.
So, man, that wouldn't exist. No one would do it. It'd be probably relegated to little secret
sex. Yeah. Like Brazil, little secret dojo's, doing their secret art, just rolling every
place there. So it's there for everyone to get into. Yeah, it's not like that. And if you want to
get a T-shirt that talks, you know, represent. So is that you're on the Jitu path?
I don't even have a job. I'll store it now. Yeah. But just stuff on there. We have a subscription
situation as well called the shirt locker. It's a new creative. I was at the
master. Myder herd of it. And everyone's well, well, let's face it. Every day, I was wearing a
different shirt from the shirt locker. Every single shirt that I wore, someone asked,
hey, where did you get that shirt? Including people who weren't even there for the master.
Like where did you get that shirt? The support song. That was a good one. A lot of people ask about
tell them to go to them. Now, the last good shirts on there. So yeah, you get a new shirt every month,
creative designs kind of new designs, creative outside of the box designs. But relative.
It's been very awesome. Good feedback on that one. Yeah. Also, if you're going to subscribe to
the things, you might as well subscribe to this podcast right here. Leave a review and all that stuff.
Also, we have a couple other podcasts. We have Jocco and Ravling with myself and Darl Cooper DC.
We have the ground of podcast. We have the warrior kid podcast. We have the Jocco Underground
Jocco Underground.com where we have an alternate universe where in the event of tyrannical
activities in this country and no one knows what to do. We'll be able to tell you what to do.
We'll be there. We'll be on the Underground Jocco Underground.com. We made it. So we had
an alternate platform in case something happens with this platform. And because we did that,
it cost money to do that. And if you want to support that, it cost you $8.18 a month. And in order
to give you something back for that in the immediate, we do another little podcast on there. We
talk about some, we do some Q&A. We talk about some alternate things. So if you want to
subscribe to that, do it. We appreciate it. Also, if you can't afford it, we understand things are
tough out there right now. If you can't afford that $8.18 a month, just email assistance at
Jocco Underground.com and we will take care of you. And we also have a YouTube channel where we make
videos. I'm sort of the brains behind them. And I'm sort of the person that thinks of the
ideas and then echo is the technical guy that does the follow the mechanics of making them. Sure.
And if you want to subscribe to that. Yes, sir. You can do that. Oh, yeah.
Big brothers, you bro. No, no, no, no, no. No, no, no. It's so bothersier.
Yeah. Actually, more than it bothers me, you're just really, really happy about it. That's more
the contrast. You know, they'll take this video stuff a room. It's just, it's just a thing.
You know, it's just a thing. I didn't realize how much of a world though video thing is.
Like, they're so. What do you mean? I mean, it's like, uh, it's a little thing, right? It's a little,
it's a little ecosystem. What? That you're in. Oh, like the industry, whatever. That's your
cool. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You kind of size each other up and so. I don't know if I
size people up, but I don't. You size up their cameras. Oh, yes, I definitely. You
size up their videos. Yeah. I mean, they create a field like, are you trying to act like you,
you don't. Obviously, I might say something like, oh, I saw this video. Look,
pretty cool. You're like, oh, I sent it to you. And you'll be like, um, you know,
I don't know what their aspect ratio is. What would have room? I was okay, bro.
You frame rate is off. Yeah. Yeah. Hey, look, you might be right. I don't know. If you want to check
out Echo Charles's expert video production, then you can check out our YouTube channel.
Sure. Jockel podcast. Hey, origin has a call to origin USA. If you want to see what
's going on up there, you can check that out. Also, psychological warfare. If you want to hear
jot, no, no, no, not if you want to hear, if you're struggling to get past the moment of
weakness and you need to hear someone with integrity. Name Jockel. Tell you why, hey,
this moment of weakness is fleeting and it's insignificant. If you want to hear that in
whatever way, psychological warfare won't get down. It's an album with tracks of him helping
you pass these moments. You suck. We all have them. Don't forget about flipsidegames.com,
where Dakota Myers selling cool stuff to hang on your wall that's also made in America.
Got a bunch of books, new book coming out called Final Spin. You have better order it now. If
you want that first to dish, look, that's what you got to do to support. There's what's the
publisher thinking? They're thinking, well, you know, Jockel, you're really not a novelist. You've
written some nonfiction, but you know, you're not really a novelist. That's true. We, we, we
shouldn't really make too many of these. Well, then the first reviews came in and they were like
damn. So anyways, if you want to check that out, if you want to order that first dish,
if you want to support the cause, you want other people to get this message. Check out Final Spin.
It's available now for pre-order to be. It'll be to you in a week, by the way.
It's coming out. So check that out. Leadership strategy and tactics field banning all the code
devaluations to protocol. This one, it goes freedom field manual. Way the word get one, two, three,
four. So many people at the monster came up and said, thanks for run that book.
Mike in the dragon's same thing. If you got kids, if you know kids, get them, get the freaking kids,
those books. Get the, get the kids that you know. Actually, one of your jutsu guys, he's instructor,
blackbelch. He said he just carries word where your kid in his back. Oh, then. He meets a kid.
He's like, here you go. Here you go. Can you imagine the impact that's going to have? If I would
got that book, I would be, I would be ruler of the world right now. Yeah. And a benevolent ruler of the
white. I'd be nice. Sure. I want to be a bully. I'll be a warrior kid. So get warrior kid for your
kids, for all kids, about face by hack worth. And then of course, extreme ownership and that I kind of
that kind of, that kind of leadership that I wrote with my brother, left, babin. Also, Esslon front speaking
of life babin. We have a leadership consultancy. He solved problems through leadership. No matter
what's going on in your company, you think you got issues, you think you got problems, things are going
wrong, things are going sideways. Guess what? Leadership is the solution. Go to Esslonfront.com to
see how we can help you solve your problems, whether it's us coming directly to you to consult,
whether it's you coming to the master, whether it's our field training exercises, EF battle field.
We've got all kinds of things that we do to help you get through your situations utilizing leadership.
And that includes, we have an online training program, an online leadership training program,
extreme ownership academy. This is where you can learn to lead and you can stay ahead of the game
and you can practice and you can rehearse and you can take courses and you can come on live and ask
me questions. You don't learn leadership in one day. It doesn't work. You need to constantly train
just like you go to the gym, just like you do to jitter. Extreme ownership.com if you want to check that
out. And if you want to help service members active and retired service members, if you want to help
the families, if you want to help gold star families, you can check out Mark Lee's mom,
Mamla Lee, she's got a charity organization and if you want to donate or you want to get involved,
go to americazmightyoriors.org and if you want more of my P-brained pontifications, or you need more of
Ecos ridiculous ramblings or Dave's enthusiastic extras. You can find us on the in-a-webs.
I'm Twitter. I'm the Graham and on that. Dave's at David Arborke, Echo's at Equitrals and I am
at juggle willing. And thanks everyone out there worldwide in the military, standing,
watch to keep us safe. Thank you. Also thanks to our police law enforcement, firefighters,
paramedics, EMTs, dispatchers, correctional officers, board of patrol, secret service, and all
first responders. Thank you for standing. But watch here on the home front to keep us safe.
And everyone else out there, keep an open mind. Free your mind. Don't think you have to control
everything because you can. You're not going to be able to put everything in perfect order.
That is not possible. Instead, be ready to shift, be ready to change, be ready to adapt,
be ready to adjust the new environments and new information. Don't let your mind get stuck.
Don't let it get trapped. Instead, free your mind. Free your mind. And until next time,
Zekko and Joko out.